---
title: 'No. 104a: Lettre Rochambeau à B de V - 1782/12/20'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 104a: Lettre Rochambeau à B de V - 1782/12/20'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-18 01:26:50 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No104a

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32567516">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>In Philadelphia, December 20, 1782</p>
<p>Expedited letter ...<br/>
[Sold as] Porto Cabella in the West Indies</p>
<p>I have the honor of sending you, my dear Baron, the duplicate<br/>
of the dispatches that I have just received from the<br/>
minister by the frigate Danae dated August 18 and<br/>
and 26 August. I beg you to give a copy to<br/>
the Marquis de Vaudreuil, because he has not received <br/>
the dispatches from his minister mentioned <br/>
in the letter of the 18th. I received another letter from my<br/>
Ministre of 9 February, in reply to the one in which I<br/>
gave notice of the evacuation of Savannah, <br/>
and that it was said that the enemy<br/>
also wanted to evacuate Charlestown, he will refer to<br/>
to his letter of August 18, of which he encloses <br/>
a new copy. From this, my dear Baron<br/>
you will see that we have done perfectly well</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32567517">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>the intentions of the King, but I believe it is very<br/>
unnecessary for you to give the new mark <br/>
of zeal that you proposed to us. I am sending <br/>
this letter through Baron de Focke, to bring it to <br/>
you with all diligence, in case you have not yet left.<br/>
If you decide to go ashore and leave all my instructions to <br/>
your brother, I leave you the master (I leave you to make the choice) or to remain<br/>
in America with the corps of troops, who remain <br/>
in accordance with the instructions of His Majesty, <br/>
while waiting for you to recover, <br/>
or if your health requires it, to return to France,<br/>
and I give orders to Mr. de la Villebrune <br/>
de la Villebrune to wait for your answer in any case before leaving <br/>
with the Romulus and the<br/>
Guadeloupe.</p>
<p>As for me, I will put myself in a position to </p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32567518">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>leave on the Emeraude, as soon as I get the news <br/>
that Mr de Vaudreuil has set sail.</p>
<p>I embrace you, my dear Baron, with the best <br/>
of my heart. Count de Rochambeau. </p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
