---
title: 'No. 103a: Lettre Rochambeau à B de V - 1782/12/18'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 103a: Lettre Rochambeau à B de V - 1782/12/18'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-18 01:25:08 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No103a

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32567513">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>At Philadelphia, December 18, 1782</p>
<p>I received, my dear Baron, the letter you did me the <br/>
honor of writing to me on the 6th of this month.<br/>
I am charmed that the embarkation of the troops<br/>
was done with dry weather, without<br/>
accidents and with little desertion.</p>
<p>News has just been received in Congress from Virginia<br/>
that says by a letter of the 7th<br/>
that a [Pley?] arrived in 5 days from Charlestown, <br/>
which left on the 2nd of December it is said<br/>
that the evacuation was completely finished, <br/>
which agrees with all the news we have from<br/>
from New York.</p>
<p>A ship left at the end of October <br/>
from the Orient arrived in Baltimore, bringing <br/>
no news except that of the dispersion</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32567514">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>of the fleet of Jamaica of which several<br/>
ships were taken, about fifteen were captured <br/>
and taken to the East by our [(believe...) ]<br/>
they say the Centare and the [ unclear - a name of a ship]<br/>
and even the Glorious. The help of<br/>
Gribaltar seems not too sure on all sides.</p>
<p>I ask you, my dear Baron, to send me <br/>
a courier as soon as you set sail. <br/>
Please put the address on it, for the public services<br/>
and with the greatest diligence<br/>
I see finally, my dear Baron, <br/>
that I think I will embark in the Chesapeack<br/>
but that I will certainly not leave before <br/>
I know you are under sail, so that I can assure<br/>
the King that his army<br/>
will not remain in the Ice of the Port of</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32567515">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Boston, you can be sure that I will be waiting <br/>
with great impatience, either in <br/>
Philadelphia, or on board the squadron. <br/>
always address it to the Chevalier de la Luzerne,<br/>
I wish you, my dear Baron, <br/>
and our little army a very good voyage and <br/>
a lot of success. If Mr. D'Estaing<br/>
puts you in a position [... I desire more<br/>
than all that - unclear sentence ] writes that peace <br/>
will bring all of you back to France in good health</p>
<p>I embrace you, my dear Baron,<br/>
from the best of my heart</p>
<p>The Count de Rochambeau</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
