---
title: 'No. 101: Lettre Tarlé (Annapolis) - 1781/09/20'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 101: Lettre Tarlé (Annapolis) - 1781/09/20'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-12 00:56:20 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No101

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541578">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Annapolis, 20 september, 1781</p>
<p>My general,</p>
<p>What Mr. le Cte de Rochambeau tells you by letter of the fifteenth<br/>
about the shortage of flour in the vicinity of Williamsburg must certainly<br/>
give concern for the subsistence of the army when it arrives at the<br/>
the place where it must operate, and all the more so since<br/>
it carries with it only enough to sustain itself for five or <br/>
six days, both in flour and in biscuits. The rapidity of its (the army's) march<br/>
and the difficulties of transport are the reason that <br/>
the army was unable to carry larger supplies with it; but by the precautions<br/>
precautions taken in Philadelphia, Elk's Head, <br/>
Baltimore, Alexandria even in speculation at Frederickburg<br/>
and all the way to Williamsburg both for <br/>
purchases of flour as well as for the transportation of those already<br/>
purchased, I hope, my General, that they will reach the army</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541579">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>a few days after his landing, or at least suffice for<br/>
its first needs. Moreover, according to what<br/>
M. de La Villebrune told you and me, the squadron was<br/>
supplied with flour for five months, which should put us at ease<br/>
because we must not doubt that the Navy will lend us some<br/>
until we receive some; this cannot be long in coming<br/>
and I beg you, my General, to be persuaded that I will <br/>
do everything possible to make sure that this happens. I have just renewed on this subject<br/>
to Mrs. Wadsworth and Carter, so that they may accelerate the<br/>
expedite by all possible means the arrival of the three thousand<br/>
barrels of flour ordered from Baltimore, and to have them loaded<br/>
the three hundred barrels purchased at Alexandria on the empty army wagons<br/>
in Alexandria, those which they hope to obtain more <br/>
in the vicinity of that place, and in the other places through which<br/>
where these cars must pass on their way to Williamsburg.<br/>
As for the party you are taking, General, to write</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541580">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>to M. le Cher de La Luzerne to ask him to ask Congress<br/>
that they invite the states of Maryland and Virginia <br/>
to support our operations, that should only produce a good effect,<br/>
but the past leads me to fear the contrary, and I think we should<br/>
confine ourselves to asking Congress only <br/>
to direct the above states not to interfere with<br/>
Mrs. Wadsworth and Carter in the steps they will take<br/>
to supply the army.</p>
<p>I am with infinite respect,<br/>
My General,<br/>
Your most humble and obedient servant<br/>
Tarlé</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
