---
title: 'No. 103: Brouillon lettre B de V (à La Luzerne ?) - Approvisonnement en farine
  - 1781/09/19'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 103: Brouillon lettre B de V (à La Luzerne ?) - Approvisonnement en
    farine - 1781/09/19'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-12 01:03:14 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No103

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541582">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>At the camp of Annapoilis on 17 september 1781</p>
<p>Flour is completely lacking Sir, in the vicinity<br/>
of Williamsbourg, M. le cte dde Rochambeau has just informed me of this<br/>
by a letter dated the 15th that he sent me by Count de Fersen.<br/>
He would like us to be able to carry on the transports<br/>
which are going to take us flour and cookies to maintain <br/>
the army for a month. As I know<br/>
positively that you are unable to carry out orders<br/>
to carry out the orders at this moment</p>
<p>I can only recommend that you make use<br/>
of all the means that are in your power<br/>
to buy all the flour that you can get together<br/>
in Baltimore, at the point of the Elk and in the<br/>
Alexandria and on the banks of the Rapanock [Rappahannock],<br/>
some of this flour can be carried by land<br/>
to Williamsburg on the preserved carriages which are going<br/>
to leave, to take this direction. Quite a considerable catch,<br/>
that we have in Baltimore will have orders from M. de La Villebrune<br/>
to load without delay all those which it can</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541583">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>to carry by forcing for the king other ships<br/>
to the point of the Elk, to Baltimore,<br/>
in Alexandria, in Fredericsbourg. It is impossible<br/>
impossible that enough flour will not arrive very quickly <br/>
at the James River to serve for the subsistence of the<br/>
of the army. The navy could perhaps <br/>
even be of some help to us [... the]<br/>
success of the campaign depends absolutely<br/>
on the accuracy of this service, I am quite sure, sir,<br/>
that there will be no means that you will not know how to take<br/>
to ensure it with as much success as you have done<br/>
until now. I ask you to inform me in the morning of the arrangements<br/>
of the measures <br/>
you are going to make as a consequence of my requests<br/>
so that I can give an account of them to Count de Rochambeau<br/>
[...] the peace of mind in sending him<br/>
by sending Count de Fersen back without the least<br/>
delay.</p>
<p>I am going to ask M. de La Luzerne to use<br/>
all his credit with Congress to have the states of Maryland <br/>
and Virginia to support your operations with efficiency.<br/>
When we pass by the squadron we will ask<br/>
de Grace to lend us flour and to send transports<br/>
to the various rivers where you will have had them collected.<br/>
</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>