---
title: 'No. 119: Lettre au duc du Chatelet (5p) - 1780/07/17'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 119: Lettre au duc du Chatelet (5p) - 1780/07/17'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-12 02:11:15 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No119

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541614">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>North America to M. du Chatelet</p>
<p>At Niewport in Rodde Island on July 17, 1780</p>
<p>We arrived here, Mr. Duke, on the 12th of <br/>
this month after a crossing of 72 days which all <br/>
the sailors consider as very happy, because <br/>
of the convoy that we brought without accident<br/>
and in totality to the reserve of the Isle de France<br/>
loaded with twenty four officers, 320 men<br/>
of the Bourbonnais regiment and many other<br/>
effects. This flotilla (flutte) separated from us <br/>
in a heavy fog at the landing, we hope <br/>
that it will have been in Boston as it was<br/>
prescribed by M. de Ternay in case of separation<br/>
to each ship's commander.<br/>
We met at the height and south of<br/>
Bermuda on the 20th of last month, five English vessels<br/>
and a frigate, the disposition of their forces,</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541615">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>the advantage that this force had to hold the wind<br/>
and the arrival of the night at the moment when we were looking<br/>
and where we could have flattered ourselves that we would reach it, all this<br/>
has created, Monsieur le Duc, that after an hour<br/>
of cannonade at fairly long distances, between all<br/>
ships of the two squadrons, that of the English taking advantage<br/>
of the night and the advantage of the wind, found itself <br/>
out of sight the next day at the crack of dawn<br/>
no matter what care and order Mr. de Ternay gave to join it.<br/>
One of their ships to which the Neptune had given <br/>
chase to, having successively of our<br/>
of our own, we supposed that it must have suffered some loss.<br/>
to have made some loss. All this small engagement<br/>
did not cost the king 30 men. He would have had<br/>
more success and no doubt a glorious effect for the navy and the<br/>
for the navy and the nation, if M. de Ternay had not<br/>
had not thought with reason that the principal object of his mission<br/>
of his mission being to lead and deposit in America the<br/>
America, the troops and the convoys that he had been<br/>
entrusted to him. There could be a lot of inconvenience and delay<br/>
and delay, in fighting a costly battle</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541616">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>more than 200 places from the landing, even if<br/>
succeeding. We still don't know the name of the leader <br/>
of this squadron and our most reasonable suppositions <br/>
lead us to believe that it must be Walsingham<br/>
who was on the same route as us to reach<br/>
Arbuthnot in New York, Graves having had the<br/>
command, as the Americans say of the<br/>
twelve ships which had been initially intended for this first <br/>
admiral, with orders to go and join Mr. Rodney in <br/>
the West Indies, without loss of time, to prevent in concert (together)<br/>
the Spaniards from seizing <br/>
Jamaica, which they are currently attacking<br/>
with ten thousand landing men and a <br/>
considerable squadron.<br/>
For us we are all happy that the <br/>
that the English have not put any obstacles to our<br/>
landing in this island, the good dispositions of M. de Rochambe<br/>
of M. de Rochambeau, his intimacy with M. de Ternay<br/>
the mutual aid of the people of the land and of the sea, which must <br/>
be the result of this agreement, the joy that the <br/>
Americans show at our arrival<br/>
the Americans of our arrival, the public rejoicings</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541617">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>that they have made here from the first moment, the honesty <br/>
of the measures of Congress and of Mr. Washington towards <br/>
Mr. de Rochambeau, all this augurs well <br/>
and should give hope of success as soon as the second <br/>
division would have joined us, and that the meeting <br/>
will be made with our allies.<br/>
The American army is on the Hudson River<br/>
and has already approached us, I think that M. de<br/>
La Fayette will not be long in joining us, and that in<br/>
eight or ten days, the two generals-in-chief will have seen <br/>
each other in an intermediate point of their camps<br/>
where they will arrange more business in a morning of <br/>
conversation, than they could in eight days<br/>
by their despatches.<br/>
The loss of Charlestown had absolutely discouraged<br/>
the Americans, our arrival already seems to restore <br/>
the tone to this cause. If we are given where you are<br/>
money and reasonable means to support it,<br/>
the French troops who will be there will serve<br/>
the views of the king and will acquire some<br/>
glory. At this time we have many <br/>
of sick people here and we spend the day looking for</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541618">
<h3>5</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>the means to accelerate their recovery, we <br/>
await it with confidence from the good air of this island<br/>
and the healthier food they will have in the future.<br/>
Mr. Washington announces that he will have about 15,000 men<br/>
well enrolled before the end of September, without counting<br/>
the militias he has in each province. If<br/>
that is the case M. de Rochambeau will be tempted to undertake an<br/>
enterprise on Long Island, and on New York, before <br/>
the end of this year. Clinton has gathered there the<br/>
most of the troops he commands.<br/>
Beforehand I am persuaded by the wisdom,<br/>
the spirit of order and the tact of the general that the king<br/>
given us, that we will spend at least six weeks<br/>
here, to desire and wait for the recovery <br/>
of our sick, to operate the reunion and the establishment<br/>
of the second division, to make a more intimate acquaintance <br/>
with our allies, to conciliate <br/>
with their chiefs on reasonable projects,<br/>
and especially to assure us<br/>
a point of reunion or retreat at any event, given the few <br/>
French who are here, can merit the approval of their masters<br/>
the esteem of their enemies and of the other nations.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>