---
title: 'No. 114: Ordre et instruction pour La Fayette - 1781/10/14'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 114: Ordre et instruction pour La Fayette - 1781/10/14'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-12 01:32:46 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No114

---

<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541600">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Orders and instructions for M. the Marquis de La Fayette<br/>
concerning the attack of the redoubts of York Town</p>
<p>Monsieur le Marquis de La Fayette is informed that after<br/>
a silence of a quarter of an hour from all our batteries<br/>
two large bombs and two shells will be fired tonight at six thirty precisely<br/>
and two shells from our first parallel, and two<br/>
two small bombs from the second, that this will be the signal<br/>
which I have proposed and which has been approved by General<br/>
Washington, to bring out the American<br/>
and French troops who are to attack <br/>
the redoubts on the left of the enemy.<br/>
M. de La Fayette being destined to attack the one<br/>
on the river, he was ordered to put himself <br/>
at the head of the division which he was to lead, and to <br/>
direct it in column on the salient angle of this redoubt,<br/>
he will have his front guard preceded by a detachment<br/>
of fifty good shooters, each having a large <span class="unclear">[fascine]</span><br/>
which they will place at the feet of the abbatis, and of which they will make a rampart<br/>
on the faces of the said work to shoot there as much under cover as<br/>
that will be possible, while the troops intended for the attack</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541601">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>will seize it by its salient. Twenty carpenters<br/>
will walk after the men in charge of fascines<br/>
to cut the abbatis which could delay the march<br/>
of the column, two lower-ranked intelligent officers will precede<br/>
this column of a few steps, to discover the points <br/>
of the abbatis which will have been opened by the <br/>
American artillery, so that the head of the column is directed there without<br/>
the least delay.</p>
<p>As soon as M. de La Fayette will be master of this redoubt,<br/>
he will have it occupied by the number of men he believes necessary<br/>
to defend it against the attacks of the enemies, whom he will<br/>
subordinate to a superior officer of unfailing courage.</p>
<p>He will dispose of the rest of the troops under his orders in such a way that<br/>
they can support at the same time the aforementioned<br/>
redoubt, and to bring back even the enemies until in their<br/>
entrenchments if they did not march there with forces too<br/>
superior. M. de La Fayette will establish without delay, his<br/>
communication with the redoubt attacked by the French<br/>
and will give all the means of protection to his workers<br/>
workers so that they can complete the boyau before daylight.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541602">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>of communication of the great American battery with the<br/>
the redoubt that he will have removed.</p>
<p>M. de La Fayette will have six ladders carried by the <br/>
rank of the troops which he will have to climb to the salient<br/>
of the redoubt.</p>
<p>It will be necessary that he has one hundred and fifty<br/>
workers following his column to fortify the redoubt<br/>
on the enemy's side as soon as he is master of it.<br/>
Its conservation will be of such importance that it must be defended <br/>
and supported with the greatest vigor.</p>
<p>If against all reasonableness however M. le Marquis <br/>
de La Fayette were attacked by forces considerable enough<br/>
to be forced to abandon the redoubt and to bring back by reason the<br/>
the troops under his command to the rear of the <br/>
American battery, he will make his retreat in the greatest order<br/>
and in such a way as to leave as much daylight as possible for the<br/>
the American battery and the <span class="unclear">[curtain wall]</span> which serves as its support,<br/>
so that the fire which will come out of it can stop the<br/>
enemies at the level of their redoubts.</p>
<p>I have too much opinion of the honor, the zeal and the intelligence of<br/>
of M. le Mis de La Fayette to not be assured that he will<br/>
make up with distinction for all that I</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541603">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>may have forgotten in this instruction, made in the trench<br/>
and a little hasty.</p>
<p>If the enemies do not put too many obstacles to our<br/>
establishment we will cover with redoubts even the head<br/>
of the workers who must complete the second parallel<br/>
to the river, and we will arrange our battalions in a single line<br/>
one hundred and fifty paces behind them.<br/>
As soon as M. de La Fayette has arranged everything for the<br/>
redoubt which he will have taken, he will want to go to<br/>
M. de Vioménil, whom he will find<br/>
in the redoubt taken by the French, <br/>
so that he can give him new instructions on what he believes<br/>
best to do for the rest of the night,<br/>
and of his service in the trench.</p>
<p>M. de La Fayette will directly instruct General<br/>
Washington of his success. It is a pleasure that M. de<br/>
Vioménil likes to leave him.</p>
<p>At the trench in front of York on October 14 at 5 o'clock in the evening.<br/>
Vioménil</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>