---
title: 'No. 128: Brouillon lettre au prince de Condé - Désertion d''Arnold - 1780/08/01'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 128: Brouillon lettre au prince de Condé - Désertion d''Arnold - 1780/08/01'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-12 02:36:46 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No128

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541644">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>To the Prince of Condé</p>
<p>Jamaica is neither taken nor even attacked.<br/>
M. de Guichin (Guichen) returned to France with most of his ships<br/>
number of his ships, M. Rodenay (Rodney) is in New Yorck<br/>
with a part of his ships. Arbucknot anchored at the<br/>
point of the Gardner with a squadron much stronger <br/>
than ours can intercept anything that would like to arrive at <br/>
Rhod Iceland, and blocks in the harbor of Newport the<br/>
ships that have transported us. Our small army of the land<br/>
employed to entrench itself and defend the navy<br/>
against a certain descent without its support, cannot and <br/>
must not change their position, live by day, and fear to miss<br/>
day, and is afraid of running out at any moment of the things most<br/>
necessary for its subsistence.</p>
<p>This exact picture of our present situation <br/>
will sufficiently prove that we have come here <br/>
with too little means. It is a political and <br/>
military mistake which could only be justified by operating <br/>
a diversion which would have ensured an advantageous peace,<br/>
by facilitating the success of a capital enterprise. This<br/>
illusion is absolutely destroyed, since we are <br/>
reduced on all sides to a purely defensive position and that Mr.<br/>
de Ternay and de Rochambeau will not leave this island <br/>
without great inconvenience if we do not send them before <br/>
the 15th of April the ships and troops necessary to keep the<br/>
the English squadron away from this coast, to bring it back to <br/>
Sandiok (Sandy Hook), and attack New Yorck before the 1st of May<br/>
with the greatest vigor.<br/>
Without these means, to which it is indispensable <br/>
to add enough money so that we can even assure</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541645">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>the pay of a corps of eight or ten thousand men of the<br/>
continental troops, we shall be without consideration and without credit<br/>
in America before six months, and there will be no situation <br/>
more unfortunate and difficult situation than that of <br/>
M. de Ternay and Rochambeau. It is however<br/>
to their foresight and their resolution, and to the perfect agreement<br/>
of their dispositions that one must attribute solely to <br/>
the inaction in which the English remained in this part of the country<br/>
although they had forces of land and sea three times more <br/>
considerable than ours. In addition, whatever happens<br/>
of all this there is such a good tone in our little army<br/>
and its confidence in its general is to such an extent, that it <br/>
will maintain itself honorably on this small corner of the earth<br/>
even if it were reduced to the most unfortunate<br/>
extremities.</p>
<p>Mr. Washington is still encamped at Orangetown.<br/>
Returning to his camp at Hartford, where he had spent<br/>
with Mr. de Rochambeau and de <br/>
Ternay. He learned on arriving at Fickhyl, <br/>
where he was to dine at General Arnold's, <br/>
that in the morning that peasants had arrested Major General<br/>
Andrew, and that on the report made <br/>
to Mr. Arnold, that the general had gone out at once, <br/>
and went in a canoe on board an English frigate <br/>
which had gone up the North River to deposit <br/>
Major Andrew within range of his camp.<br/>
This latter officer, a man of birth, young, rich<br/>
amiable, Mr. Clinton's friend, his trusted agent<br/>
to take with Arnold all the measures after</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541646">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>which this abominable man had proposed <br/>
to deliver West Point to the English, was hanged a few<br/>
days after his detention without having declared any <br/>
of his accomplices, nor having marked any other regret than that<br/>
for not having succeeded in his enterprise.</p>
<p>The peasants who arrested him even though he had a passport<br/>
of Arnold, but in truth under another name than his own, <br/>
constantly refused the offers to give them his watch, and four hundred <br/>
guineas which he had with him, to restore his freedom.</p>
<p>But for Arnold, the man in America who<br/>
gave the greatest proofs of courage, the one who had <br/>
contributed most to the humiliation of the English at Saratoga,<br/>
who has had the most distinguished actions for five years,<br/>
covered with wounds, honored with the esteem and confidence<br/>
of Mr. Washington and the army, would he have <br/>
had the courage to survive his shame! It is said here<br/>
that he showed up at the parade at New Yorck in a<br/>
uniform of a general officer. I don't want <br/>
to believe it for the nation to which he has just given himself<br/>
in such a perfidious manner. We also know <br/>
that this cursed man denounced to Mr. Clinton a great<br/>
number of Americans living in Long Islande<br/>
who accurately informed Mr. Washington<br/>
of all the movements of the English in that part.<br/>
This new perfidy continues to embarrass us/ to make us feel bad.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
