---
title: 'No. 125: Mémoire relatif à l''arrivée du Cte de Grasse Brouillon lettre au
  duc du Chatelet - 1781/08/15'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 125: Mémoire relatif à l''arrivée du Cte de Grasse Brouillon lettre
    au duc du Chatelet - 1781/08/15'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-12 02:29:05 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No125

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541634">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>At the camp of Philippsburg, August 16, 1781</p>
<p>I had the honor of informing you, Monsieur le Duc, by my <br/>
letters of the months of May, June and July, of all the events <br/>
relative to our departure from Newport, and to our march on the<br/>
North River. There has been no change in our position <br/>
since our meeting with the Americans, but the frigate<br/>
Concord returned to Newport on the eleventh having brought us<br/>
dispatches from M. le cte de Grace to M. de Barras, in which <br/>
he announces that he will leave St-Domingue on the 3rd or 4th <br/>
of this month with 28 ships and 3200 men of troops<br/>
to join his squadron before the 1st of February, and <br/>
then devote himself for three months to serve the cause of<br/>
America. We begin to flatter ourselves that our generals<br/>
will not lose a moment in employing this increase <br/>
of forces to useful operations, and that our small army <br/>
will have the opportunity to show itself favorably (in a favorable light).<br/>
But as the means that M. de Grace brings to his aid<br/>
cannot be sufficient to attack New York, it must always be remembered<br/>
that the approaches to this city <br/>
are bristling with difficulties, that it is guarded <br/>
by ten thousand men of troops accustomed for six years to the<br/>
of war, whose leaders, who have a reputation, <br/>
have to support the cause in front of the universe</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541635">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>the most interesting and decisive for their nation,<br/>
and that the French and American armies as they are at <br/>
Philippsburg camp do not have eight thousand combatants.</p>
<p>If you would be so kind as to add to this insufficiency, Monsieur le Duc<br/>
and to the means of the English for the conservation of<br/>
New York that their squadron embossed in the Hook<br/>
would only be attacked by superior forces <br/>
with the greatest disadvantage, it will be easy for you to judge <br/>
that an enterprise of this importance must be renounced for good reason<br/>
and that it is in Virginia, the Carolinas, or Georgia, <br/>
that the opportunity should be sought to make use of the sea and land forces brought<br/>
by M. de Grace. Nothing transpires yet about the course of action <br/>
to take, but the experience and wisdom of our generals are <br/>
so well known, that they will undoubtedly make the best use of the<br/>
means they will have in their hands. For my part<br/>
I estimate that the army will no longer be here in five or six days,<br/>
that it will pass the North river to be directed on the <br/>
Delaware where it will wait to embark, and be carried <br/>
to the squadron of M. de Grace, that this general, together with M. de Baras<br/>
has informed us of his arrival at the headlands of this river.<br/>
In addition, whatever the events of this campaign<br/>
that we are starting very late, and that we will finish perhaps<br/>
three hundred <span class="unclear">[lieux]</span> from here, I will hasten to inform you of it, <br/>
never wanting to lose any opportunity to prove to you<br/>
my attention to what may interest you, as well as <br/>
the truth about all the feelings I have devoted to you, Mr. Duke, <br/>
until my last moment.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541636">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>If Mr. de Grace enters the Bay of Chesapeack from the<br/>
first moment of his arrival in North America, <br/>
and that this was the point given to M. de Barras for his meeting<br/>
it would then be possible that Cornwallis only withdrew from<br/>
from Virginia but with great loss, for I <br/>
I still suppose that we shall march in a few days and <br/>
that we will be at the point of the Elk about the<br/>
10 7ber.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>