---
title: 'No. 122: Brouillon lettre au duc de Coigny - 1780/09/18'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 122: Brouillon lettre au duc de Coigny - 1780/09/18'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-12 02:20:18 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No122

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541624">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>At Newport, 18 September 1780</p>
<p>We have just learned, My dear Duke, that Mr. Cornwallis<br/>
attacked General Gates on the 16th of last month at Camden, in <br/>
Carolina, that he beat him to a pulp, that he took from him a part of his<br/>
Continental troops and killed or wounded several of his<br/>
generals. This news is very unfortunate for the cause<br/>
that we have come to defend. We cannot yet foresee<br/>
the consequences of this disaster.<br/>
Messrs. de Rochambeau and de Ternay will go on the 20th of this month to<br/>
to Harrefort on the Conecticut, where M. de Washington<br/>
has given them an appointment to complete more business<br/>
in a morning of conversation than they could only have done in three weeks<br/>
by their despatches. These generals <br/>
will go nearly forty leagues from the small armies<br/>
which they command, to carry out this very necessary meeting. <br/>
Mr. Washington's army is still encamped in the vicinity<br/>
of Orange Town on the right bank of the Hudson.</p>
<p>Messrs. Arbucknot and Clinton have been tiring themselves <br/>
for two months making, unmaking and remaking in New Yorck <br/>
very expensive shipments to New York, under the pretext of attacking us<br/>
without this having worried us. They have given up</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541625">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>for more than 15 days to the cruise that they had established<br/>
at the sight of this port. We know that they have a lot of people<br/>
sick, that they need to rest, and that they have sent back to England a large number of transport ships<br/>
without being loaded.</p>
<p>As for us, my dear Duke, we live here in <br/>
perfect tranquility, we consider this campaign to be over<br/>
as finished, and it is only in the distance <br/>
that we can flatter ourselves to be for something in the events of war<br/>
that might be of interest. It is necessary<br/>
that our second division has arrived, that we are sent enough<br/>
money to pay even the pay of our allies<br/>
if that becomes necessary, and that our maritime<br/>
forces are not insufficient to favor our undertakings.<br/>
In the meantime we are doing our best to<br/>
preserve the little piece of land we occupy <br/>
and not to freeze to death in Newport<br/>
where we will spend the winter, according to all appearances.</p>
<p>Our scorbutics are cured, but we have <br/>
a lot of discomforts that make us feel sorry. Say often</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541626">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>and aloud, My dear Duke, that it is indispensably<br/>
necessary to send us soldiers and money<br/>
if one wants us to do the good that the government<br/>
has no doubt proposed by sending us here. Our<br/>
general is doing wonderfully, he sees and administers<br/>
everything here with a wisdom and patience that we all admire.<br/>
As for the beautiful youth, it is sorry for the delays<br/>
that necessity orders, and which seem to take away<br/>
the opportunities for glory that they have come to seek<br/>
in this country. Besides, they are all doing wonderfully well,<br/>
and are the best example.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541627">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Carters to stop for 2 louis per month, they are hired<br/>
only for three months.</p>
<p>Mr. Dumas, Collot, Ménonville, dear de Tarlé,<br/>
M. du Bouchet, Lench, Blanchard, Corni, Vilmandry.</p>
<p>Colonel Green and his rgt. with Mr. Head are late <br/>
to join Mr. Washington. The general authorized their <br/>
departure and desires that it not be delayed.</p>
<p>M. de Chatelux on the object of the reengagements.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div class="page-notes">
<strong>Notes:</strong>
<div>
<p><span class="page-note-username">Iris de Rode</span></p>
<p class="page-note-content">Cette lettre n’est pas de la main de Vioménil 
Au verso de la dernière page quelques notes indépendantes de la lettre </p>
</div>
</div>
</div>