---
title: 'No. 126: Brouillon lettre au prince de Condé - 1781/09/05'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 126: Brouillon lettre au prince de Condé - 1781/09/05'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-12 02:31:40 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No126

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541637">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>In Philadelphia, on the 5th of September 1781</p>
<p>Mgr (Monseigneur)</p>
<p>We arrived here on the 3rd after having camped successively<br/>
at North Castle, Crampon, Kingsferry, where the troops passed<br/>
the North river, Suffreno, Prompton, Wipany, Bullions Tavern,<br/>
Sommerset, Prenstown, Trenton, where we passed the Delaware,<br/>
Lion Tavern, and Philadelphia. The first division left<br/>
this morning to proceed in three marches by Chester and Wilmington<br/>
to Head of Elk, I will follow tomorrow with the second. We <br/>
learned this evening at six o'clock of the arrival of M. de Grace with 28<br/>
vessels in Chesapeak Bay. This event was<br/>
keenly felt by the Congress, while <br/>
I hasten to inform you of it, bonfires are lit on all sides, all the <br/>
bells and cries of the people are heard, M. de la Luzerne<br/>
has two thousand people of all classes at his door, he was <br/>
harangued by considerable people a quarter of an hour after <br/>
the arrival of this news. If it results in greater<br/>
efforts on the part of the provinces which we are going to help, this<br/>
campaign, which was announced very sadly, will end up being <br/>
as glorious and useful as it has been tiring. M. de<br/>
Grace has already landed at the entrance to the James River</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541638">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>the regiments of Agenais, Gattinais, and Touraine that he brought<br/>
with him. We are even told that they will be joined to the troops that<br/>
M. de La Fayette commands. If at the time of this junction Cornwallis<br/>
was still at York, with the five thousand elite men he commands<br/>
he will suffer great humiliation, either if he decides to break through the<br/>
body of our Frenchmen gathered with M. de La Fayette to return to<br/>
to Charlestown, or that he continues to entrench himself at York<br/>
where we shall be able to attack him towards the end of this month with<br/>
sufficient forces to take or destroy it. Our little<br/>
army will embark at Head of Elk, to be carried in two or three days<br/>
by Chesapeack Bay, to the point where <br/>
our meeting with the squadron of Mr. de Grace and the troops<br/>
he has brought. Messrs. de Washington and de Rochambeau left<br/>
this morning to accelerate and multiply all the means of our<br/>
embarkation. In fifteen days we will all be a hundred places from<br/>
from here and in a position to operate. If Cornwalis has escaped, the<br/>
Virginia will be entirely delivered, and we may attempt to render <br/>
the same service to the Carolinas. At last here is a very <br/>
interesting moment. In spite of the fatigues our soldiers are doing wonderfully<br/>
and do not give occasion for the least complaint. It is possible that they<br/>
made more than 300 <span class="unclear">[lieux ]</span>at the end of this campaign, the hope of being useful has lifted all heads. General Head remained at<br/>
the left bank of the Hudson with five thousand men of continental troops<br/>
at the entrance to West Point Gorge. Clinton will undoubtedly seek</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541639">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>to use all the means that remained to him in New York to begin this<br/>
and to aim at Conecticut and the Jeyseys, but he will not save <br/>
Virginia. Admiral Hood met at Graves in the Hook, at the end of<br/>
of last month. They set sail a few days later with 20 vessels<br/>
heading south. If they did not carry troops to Charlestown<br/>
and Cornwalis did not return there in a hurry, before the<br/>
landing of M. de Grace's troops, we are so well launched <br/>
that after reckoning with Cornwalis in Virginia, I should not be <br/>
surprised if we laid siege to Charlestown before the end of the <br/>
campaign. This last attempt will be subordinated, however, to the time<br/>
that M. de Grace can give to support the interests of America.<br/>
M. de Baras left Newport on the 25th of last month. If he is<br/>
in Chesapeack Bay as we hope, <br/>
Mr. de Grace's squadron is composed of 36 ships and <br/>
a large number of frigates. This is the exact picture of the<br/>
situation of the affairs of America, <br/>
I will take great care to inform you accurately of the slightest events of our campaign.</p>
<p>M. de la Luzerne received us here in a perfect manner<br/>
and with the greatest magnificence. He is adored by the Americans and<br/>
enjoys the greatest consideration in Congress.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>