---
title: 'No. 121: Brouillon lettre à x - Organisation défense de Newport - 1780/08/01'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 121: Brouillon lettre à x - Organisation défense de Newport - 1780/08/01'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-12 02:17:47 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No121

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541621">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>The Isle de France arrived in Boston without<br/>
accident and the detachment of the Bourbonnais Rgt.<br/>
has already joined us.</p>
<p>Admirals Arbuthnot and Graves are crossing at the view of this port<br/>
with eleven vessels, and a great number of frigates, <br/>
since the 21st of last month.<br/>
Fortunately, they arrived there eight days too late.<br/>
Clinton for his part embarked on transport ships the greater part <br/>
of his troops and his artillery.<br/>
According to what he says and what Mr. Washington tells us<br/>
and all the news of the country,<br/>
this general and the two admirals will attack us<br/>
incessantly here with all the forces of land and sea that they<br/>
have in America. I have trouble believing it, but if it would happen,<br/>
we will be a little less embarrassed by it, than we would have<br/>
been eight or ten days ago, the delay having left us<br/>
time to reconaiter the interior of this island,<br/>
to gather the horses necessary to drag<br/>
our artillery, to fortify the entrance and the interior of the<br/>
the harbor and to embrace the squadron, so that it could be</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541622">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>cannot be attacked without great inconvenience s<br/>
for the enemy, to open marches on all the points<br/>
where Mr. Clinton would like to land in order <br/>
to attack him in the French manner before he is <br/>
established, and finally to have provided ourselves<br/>
to any event a camp that covers Niewport<br/>
which we are fortifying with good redoubts and where we<br/>
would have ended honorably if we had not been able to<br/>
successfully oppose the efforts of their landing.<br/>
I must add to this <br/>
that our general, in order to keep his communication<br/>
with the continent, is still building <br/>
a very long redoubt at the point of this island <br/>
which is the closest to it, that he has already provided himself with<br/>
the means to have five hundred men of good militia <br/>
militia to defend it, that he will have two thousand<br/>
others to guard the redoubts of his<br/>
camp when he goes with his French troops to the landing points<br/>
that he has six thousand men of this militia under the orders of the<br/>
general [yesterday], will have a camp in the continent</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541623">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>on theshores which are above the ferry of Holands Ferry<br/>
opposite the point of the island where the redoubt is built which must<br/>
protect the communication of Boston, that Mr. Washington will march<br/>
to New York and attack it even if Mr. Clinton has not left<br/>
considerable forces there.<br/>
This is really the state of our present situation. M. de<br/>
La Fayette, whom we have kept for eight days and who has been<br/>
very useful to us for all the conciliations with<br/>
with the Americans, left yesterday to join Mr. Washington<br/>
who, on announcing to him his<br/>
movement to New York, shows the greatest desire<br/>
to come and resume<br/>
the command of his advance guard.<br/>
Whatever happens in all this, we must always remember with admiration<br/>
the prompt resolution of our<br/>
of our generals of land and sea, and of their spirit<br/>
of conciliation. For M. de Rochambeau he has a patience,<br/>
an activity, and a foresight above all praise.<br/>
We do not have the slightest news of our second division.<br/>
If it arrives it will be well received. If all the movements <br/>
of Clinton were reduced to fortifying several points on Long Island<br/>
assuring Broklin I should not be surprised.<br/>
I have more faith in this resolution than in his landing at<br/>
Rodde Island.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>