---
title: 'No. 127: A traiter avec l''intendant" - Mémorandum B de V - 1781/09/18'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 127: A traiter avec l''intendant" - Mémorandum B de V - 1781/09/18'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-12 02:34:30 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No127

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541640">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>To treat with Mr. Intendant at Annapolis on the 18th of September in the mornign morning</p>
<p>I desire and believe it is good that the carts can stay, if there is<br/>
sufficient forage and grain.</p>
<p>If there is not enough straw for the soldiers to sleep on, it is necessary to<br/>
send for it on all the empty carriages that are <br/>
following the army. Use the same means<br/>
for hay and for grain, if there is a lack of it.</p>
<p>The Intendant must be asked to send a statement to Mr. de Bevile without delay.<br/>
de Bevile a list of the names of all the employees of the army<br/>
who will be embarked and of those who will march with the<br/>
column of crews.</p>
<p>To know if it will be the land or the navy which will feed<br/>
the horses that can be embarked. If  they have to be transported on land,<br/>
provide without delay the means to ensure this part of<br/>
of subsistence in hay and grain</p>
<p>What means will assure us of oxen at the arrival of the army in Williamsbourg. Wouldn't it be prudent to embark some. In the latter case, provide for their subsistence.</p>
<p>Can't we give oxen to the Marinne who asks for them<br/>
and would it not be at the same time to oblige and save money</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541641">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Propose to M. l'intendant to send from here a rather large <br/>
number of carts that I am convinced will be completely <br/>
useless in six weeks. To reflect beforehand<br/>
on the needs of the troops brought by M. le cte de<br/>
Grace, on the usefulness of a large number of carriages<br/>
to carry supplies for attacks,<br/>
on the resources that Virginia can provide in carts,<br/>
I want to know the opinion of Mr. Wadsworth in this regard.</p>
<p>To give the quartermaster a statement of the officers, soldiers, <br/>
cavalrymen, hussars and servants who march in the column<br/>
of the crews, as well as the horses of the headquarters<br/>
and regiments.</p>
<p>To speak of the 30 Americans commanded by an officer<br/>
who will march to this column so that they are<br/>
provided for their subsistence.</p>
<p>Make sure that the navy will feed the whole army and<br/>
dispose of accordingly.</p>
<p>To send the employees [...] to ensure the subsistence on the road that the <br/>
crews will take.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541642">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Determine the buildings needed for the supplies, and deliver them without<br/>
the slightest delay.</p>
<p>To have Mr. Dauré receive the submission of Colonel<br/>
Henriette for the resources that he will provide in Alexandria.</p>
<p>To assemble in one park all the cars<br/>
as soon as the embarkation is finished.</p>
<p>To know exactly the number of the said cars<br/>
those of the treasury<br/>
those of the foodstuffs<br/>
those of the hospitals<br/>
those of the regiments those of the headquarters<br/>
those of the artillery</p>
<p>What means of food can be provided to the squadron if the commanders <br/>
of the ships, frigates, or transports do not have enough <br/>
to fulfill this object.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541643">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Letter and request to be made to the regiments</p>
<p>How many carts can be sent back without inconvenience</p>
<p>What escort will they put with the retained carts, and<br/>
the horses of the officers who will follow the column of crews.</p>
<p>What means will be employed to drive the horses of<br/>
Messrs. (the gentlemen) the officers.</p>
<p>To inform them that they will learn [...] the order the number<br/>
of horses that it will be possible to embark by rgt and<br/>
the name of the ships on which they will be embarked</p>
<p>To ask for a statement by approximation of the weight of the effects<br/>
which will be embarked by each rgt.</p>
<p>To inform that the officers will be fed by the marines.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>