---
title: 'No. 138: Lettre de M. de Veimeranges, Intendant - 1781/05/19'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 138: Lettre de M. de Veimeranges, Intendant - 1781/05/19'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-22 15:40:11 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No138

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32573050">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Paris, May 19, 1781</p>
<p>We only know of your news from <br/>
England, my dear Monsieur le Baron,<br/>
they leave us worried;<br/>
I will always take it easy on what<br/>
concerns you, since no one <br/>
certainly takes more interest than I do <br/>
in your preservation and your glory than I am.<br/>
The general opinion is that your landing<br/>
could not take place after the naval battle<br/>
and that you have returned to Newport; when can<br/>
can we know more?<br/>
and see us in a position to show you<br/>
as you are? Everyone was<br/>
charmed to hear that you were<br/>
that you were in charge of a particular expedition<br/>
we didn't doubt<br/>
of your success, were were only annoyed that<br/>
your detachment was not more <br/>
numerous; it is thus that the</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573051">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Mcal (Maréchal) de Broglie himself <br/>
explained himself three weeks ago<br/>
in front of me at Marli. <br/>
Our ministry is always <br/>
the same. Mr. Neker (Necker) is experiencing<br/>
this moment a violent<br/>
shake; it is doubtful that it is due to the<br/>
disgust he is experiencing, unless he receives a<br/>
satisfaction that will make the<br/>
the words and writings diminish that do not cease against him.<br/>
In many ways his retirement would be a catastrophe<br/>
France. Within 15 days this <br/>
affair about which you you will be informed of <br/>
in more detail than I can, will be decided.<br/>
I hope that we will keep <br/>
Mr. le Mis de Ségur for a long time; my testimony<br/>
on his account could appear<br/>
suspicious because he fills me with<br/>
kindness and confidence.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573052">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>I have a strong desire to deserve them and I do<br/>
my best he has an excellent heart<br/>
a just spirit<br/>
and pure intentions; his soul<br/>
is elevated and he is an enemy of the intrigue<br/>
and of any kind of maneuver; his <br/>
enemies say that he would need<br/>
more scope, but this is often a way to<br/>
go astray, and to <br/>
be a good minister of war<br/>
a sound judgment, the will<br/>
of doing good, and much attention <br/>
to be well assisted can<br/>
suffice.<br/>
Sérilly had me give you a box<br/>
for you that Sr. Chanet is in charge of<br/>
Colonel Laurent<br/>
was given a package by me<br/>
to your address that <br/>
Mde le Baronne passed on to me.<br/>
The work for the hospitals which I was charged with is finally finished.<br/>
the ordinance will be given to the<br/>
be given to the King in three days; if he</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573053">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>if there is still time, we will send <br/>
copies to your army. I<br/>
give to Mr. de Charrin the bureau/department<br/>
which had been taken away from him at the wrong time;<br/>
I answered Mr. de Ségur that <br/>
that there is reason to be happy with him,<br/>
and I am quite convinced of that.<br/>
I am still in charge of the stewardship of the<br/>
the army of the coasts, which will not have<br/>
this year a general of a<br/>
general or assembly, and of the details<br/>
relating to yours; that is enough for me at the moment.<br/>
We felt the need to help<br/>
the Americans and Mr. Neker<br/>
was the first to contribute to it; it will be necessary<br/>
I believe to extend the help if it is to be effective. The<br/>
Colonel Laurens is a brave man<br/>
zealous for his country, but he is<br/>
new, meticulous and tiring<br/>
as a negotiator.<br/>
Mr de Vergennes will finally see the writings<br/>
on the conduct of Sr. Hoker. Mr.<br/>
Tarlé can remember what I told him when he left<br/>
Farewell my<br/>
my dear Monsieur le Baron; I talk at length with you, <br/>
but I find so much pleasure in it and the<br/>
occasions are so rare. I dare to believe that you<br/>
count on my faithful friendship as I am pleased to count on yours.<br/>
Veimeranges.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
