---
title: 'No. 134: Brouillon lettre au Mis de Castries - compliment pour nomination
  et CR combat du 16 mars - 1781/03/04'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 134: Brouillon lettre au Mis de Castries - compliment pour nomination
    et CR combat du 16 mars - 1781/03/04'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-22 15:17:27 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No134

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32573037">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>At Newport, April 3, 1781<br/>
Monsieur le Marquis</p>
<p>Allow me to compliment you on <br/>
the department that the king has just entrusted to you. His<br/>
current state, the composition and the will of the greatest number<br/>
of the officers attached to it. What I saw at the<br/>
battle that M. le chevalier Destouches has just fought,<br/>
of his zeal, his capacity and the distinction <br/>
of the captains of the squadron he commands, leaves me <br/>
no doubt about the success of the royal navy,<br/>
when the operations will be directed by an enlightened minister<br/>
the good and the glory of such an interesting corps, <br/>
this advantage was undoubtedly reserved for you<br/>
Monsieur le marquis, I will be pleased to see</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573038">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>your successes, because they will make at the same time the glory of the arms<br/>
of the king, and that of your ministry. I beg you to accept with kindness the<br/>
homage of all my wishes in this regard, and that of the respectful<br/>
attachment with which I have the honor to be</p>
<p>Monsieur le marquis<br/>
Your very humble and obedient servant<br/>
Vioménil</p>
<p>PS<br/>
Although the captains of the ships have all maneuvered on the<br/>
day of the 16th in such a way as to<br/>
deserving of praise, Messrs. de la Grandière, de la Clocheterie<br/>
de Marigny and de Médine, having fought earlier and longer<br/>
than the other ships of the squadron, these officers<br/>
deserve to be cited particularly for the vigor and the sustained <br/>
distinction of their conduct.<br/>
MM. de Granchain [and de Capellis (?)] having also served the<br/>
before and during the battle with great utility<br/>
on the Duke of Burgundy where I was, I make it a duty to give them <br/>
this testimony to you. (the last part is on the next page!) ]</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573039">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>I am not telling you anything, Monsieur le Marquis, about the health<br/>
of your son, because he left us two months ago <br/>
to go and see the most interesting places in America.<br/>
If it hadn't been for the annoyances that brought us back to Newport<br/>
I would have had the pleasure of finding him in Virginia<br/>
where I knew he had accompanied M. de La Fayette, <br/>
with whom I was to operate in concert to deliver that<br/>
unfortunate province from the persecutions of Arnold<br/>
and his subordinates.<br/>
MM. de Laval and de Noailles, who were employed<br/>
to my detachment showed themselves at the battle of the 16th with<br/>
distinction, I owe the same testimony to MM. de Damas,<br/>
de Sheldon, de Chabannes and de Lameth</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>