---
title: 'No. 137: Lettre de M, de Veimerange, Intendant - 1781/10/06'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 137: Lettre de M, de Veimerange, Intendant - 1781/10/06'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-22 15:23:47 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No137

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32573042">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Paris, 6th of February 1781</p>
<p>Here again, my dear sir the<br/>
Baron a package which was sent to me <br/>
for you, and which I have a <br/>
great desire to send you in particular. <br/>
Mr. Rohant, who will give it to you, is <br/>
a man whom I am sending to your<br/>
army on the special recommendation of<br/>
Sérilly; he was attached to<br/>
to his late father, and he was the secretary of<br/>
your poor friend de Pange at the time<br/>
of his death. As there were<br/>
subjects to replace in the part <br/>
of the farms and that the steward (régisseur)<br/>
asked me for a man in a position<br/>
to write the accounts. I took advantage<br/>
of the opportunity, thinking that I could not<br/>
make a better choice.<br/>
Mr. le Mis de Ségur sent me<br/>
a letter from M. de Rochambeau in which he complains<br/>
that he was sent too many<br/>
employees; but this does not<br/>
ad upp either with what Mr. Tarlé had told me<br/>
nor with the requests of</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573043">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Blanchard and the hospital steward.<br/>
It is certain that<br/>
at the same time as the two commissioners<br/>
Jugardi and [Chéreuil (?)], we have sent <br/>
a large number of health officers, <br/>
but all these people<br/>
had been named by<br/>
Mr. le Pce de Montbarrey, and <br/>
it would not have been appropriate to reform them;<br/>
Moreover, if your army makes<br/>
movements and if one is in the<br/>
the necessity of multiplying the establishments, <br/>
you will not have<br/>
too many people.<br/>
We now have the certainty<br/>
that Mr. de Grasse is in the<br/>
vicinity of North America<br/>
and that he will be able to have the<br/>
superiority there; but I see with pain<br/>
that he has not headed towards New York<br/>
and that consequently<br/>
it will not put you in a position<br/>
to act successfully; <br/>
besides, he could come back there. <br/>
</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573044">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>I feel that the English should be driven out of <br/>
and to do so take New York away from them, I can <br/>
confirm that if the opinion of our minister<br/>
minister had prevailed in the <br/>
committee you would now have the means to<br/>
attempt this important enterprise, <br/>
and to succeed.<br/>
A large convoy is being formed in Brest<br/>
it seems to be destined for<br/>
the East Indies; it was to leave<br/>
with the one destined for you,<br/>
but as there is a delay we are sending<br/>
you 2 500 000 # by a frigate accompanied<br/>
by a fleet<br/>
that will bring you the most necessary objects<br/>
it appears from a letter that Mr. de Castries<br/>
has just written<br/>
to Mr. de Ségur that Mr. de Grasse<br/>
has proposed to give your army<br/>
about 1200 m# in cash<br/>
which he has obtained in the<br/>
Spanish colonies; this service<br/>
will not be useless to you; I am writing about this <br/>
to Mr. de Tarlé.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573045">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>I have just received news<br/>
from Madame la Baronne de Vioménil,<br/>
she writes to me from Dijon to<br/>
recommend the son of M. le cte<br/>
de Dombal <br/>
for whom you had the promise of a place at the<br/>
military school. He was not included in<br/>
last year's nomination;<br/>
I will do what I can to make him<br/>
happier this year. <br/>
The Baroness tells me that she will be back<br/>
in Nancy in eight or ten days.<br/>
I am writing to Blanchard, and I am not letting him<br/>
ignore how much he must strive to deserve<br/>
the continuation of your friendship.<br/>
To God, my dear Monsieur<br/>
the Baron, I long for the moment<br/>
to embrace you and to renew<br/>
to you in person<br/>
the assurances of tender and faithful<br/>
attachment that I have vowed to you.<br/>
V. [(Veimerange) ]</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>