---
title: 'No. 140: Lettre  de x - Considérations sur situation - 1781/02/04'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 140: Lettre  de x - Considérations sur situation - 1781/02/04'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-22 15:44:45 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No140

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32573055">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Frescati April 2, 1781</p>
<p>I received, my dear baron, two days before my departure<br/>
from Paris your letter which was given to me by M. de Corny,<br/>
I am delighted with the good state of your health at present, and I hope that you will not suffer from the rheumatism <br/>
which has tormented you so much, and made <br/>
you so ill. You would not be doing justice, my dear Baron,<br/>
if you were not well persuaded of the keen and sincere interest<br/>
I take in what concerns you. We often talk about you, <br/>
the Marquise de Laval and I, and it is a great point<br/>
of tranquility for us to know that<br/>
the Marquis de Laval with you. I believe, my dear Baron<br/>
that you are all very impatient with the inaction in which you are forced<br/>
to remain by the lack of help. <br/>
I don't see that they are disposed to send you any; there is not<br/>
even talk at all about sending out the second division of troops<br/>
which they had promised you. I fear<br/>
that M. de Rochambeau has chosen in his son a poor<br/>
negotiator; it seems to me that he is doing it rather badly,<br/>
and I doubt very much that he will get anything out of what he has been<br/>
what he has been asked to do. I believe that all the help<br/>
they want to send you, will be limited to money<br/>
and a few recruits to complete your work.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573056">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>small and very small army. I do not understand<br/>
what the court's system is in this respect, <br/>
it is necessary to believe that one has good reasons, but <br/>
I avoid that my politics are too limited to be able<br/>
to guess them. It seems to me that it would be<br/>
much better to leave the Americans to<br/>
their own forces, than to help them only half-heartedly <br/>
and unsuccessfully. Insufficient help always costs a lot of money<br/>
and the expense is<br/>
a pure loss. For a long time the cabinet of Versailles has been accused of<br/>
never doing things more than halfway<br/>
and I die of fear that in the present circumstance, this accusation<br/>
is more founded than ever.<br/>
In addition, it must be agreed that the Spaniards<br/>
do no better than we do: they spend an enormous amount of money<br/>
on their so-called blockade of Gibraltar, <br/>
which the English will not fail to supply when<br/>
necessary, and the only result of this beautiful operation will be the loss<br/>
of a lot of time, many men and much money,<br/>
the nation will be covered with ridicule. I believe that<br/>
Lord North is making a fool of them and of us.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573057">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Its conduct is quite different at the beginning<br/>
of this war the English seemed to be touching their loss<br/>
and every year their position becomes<br/>
better. Without any ally, they face everything,<br/>
and far from suffering losses, they ruin the trade<br/>
of all their enemies, and will perhaps end up dictating <br/>
the peace they will want to grant them.<br/>
I am, my dear baron, too good a Frenchman <br/>
not be equally distressed and humiliated by the little success<br/>
that we have in a war, where we <br/>
seemed to have so much at stake. What will be the end of it?<br/>
I dare not think about it. My ideas are so dark in this respect,<br/>
that I am afraid to dwell on it. You are undoubtedly<br/>
now aware of all the changes that have taken place in our<br/>
ministry. We are convinced that there will be many more<br/>
from now until soon,<br/>
which is always to the detriment of this poor kingdom<br/>
made to be the most flourishing in Europe, and which <br/>
degenerates every day from its former splendor.<br/>
What consoles me in all this, my dear baron, is that, your<br/>
army is too weak to undertake anything,<br/>
you will remain in inaction, you will not run any risk<br/>
and you will give us no cause for concern<br/>
only those which are inseparable from the</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573058">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>absence and a distance of two thousand leagues.<br/>
The air you breathe is good and healthy, and I hope you will return<br/>
to us in good health, and if not<br/>
covered with glory and laurels, at least having<br/>
having done all that was in you to acquire them. It was not your fault<br/>
if you were denied the means,<br/>
you made an act of good will: what more could you have done?<br/>
Farewell, my dear baron, receive the new and sincere<br/>
assurances of my tender and inviolable attachment.</p>
<p>A thousand compliments to your brother and to the chevr de Chastelux, I am not telling you anything<br/>
about the Mquis de Laval, because I am also writing to him.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
