---
title: 'No. 141: Lettre  de x - Considérations sur situation - 1781/09/30'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 141: Lettre  de x - Considérations sur situation - 1781/09/30'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-22 15:46:53 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No141

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32573059">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Frescati 30th of February 1781</p>
<p>I was very saddened, my dear baron, by the terrible<br/>
accident that happened to you, <br/>
but I am assured that you have been freed from it after<br/>
two weeks's rest in your room; this will have<br/>
had upset your activity a little <br/>
but I hope that you were reasonable enough<br/>
to submit to it.<br/>
The return of M. de Rochambeau no longer seems<br/>
doubtful; it had been said for some time that<br/>
M. de Lévis was being sent to replace him, <br/>
but it is certain today that you will be left<br/>
in charge of our small army;<br/>
that is certainly the <br/>
best we could do, and the only aspect I consider negative in all that,<br/>
are the few means left to you to do something.<br/>
I do not know what to wish for<br/>
in this regard; on the one hand I would be delighted if you<br/>
find opportunities to display your talents,<br/>
and to justify the choice that has been made for you;<br/>
on the other hand I would be worried about the dangers<br/>
that you would face, as well as the Mquis de Laval, whom</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573060">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>surely you would have the goodness to employ. <br/>
In addition, I understand that you must be <br/>
distressed and impatient to have passed the seas <br/>
to do nothing and remain idle. It seems that <br/>
although united with Wasington, you are not strong enough <br/>
to attack New York, <br/>
and I imagine the English will not find themselves <br/>
strong enough to attempt to force you into your camp <br/>
and risk losing <br/>
a lot of people, which they need a lot <br/>
and who are not easily replaced, so I <br/>
foresee that you will spend the remainder of the campaign <br/>
in your camp, without undertaking anything, <br/>
and that the English will keep themselves closed in <br/>
New York. We had founded great hopes <br/>
on the preponderant forces of M. de Grasse, <br/>
but it seems that he did not justify (assert) the preference (higher rank)<br/>
given to him over our other marine generals. <br/>
sailors. It is feared that he has had the clumsiness <br/>
to let himself be warned in your vicinity <br/>
by Admiral Rodney, which would give any kind of </p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573061">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>advantage over us to the English the rest of <br/>
of this campaign. <br/>
M. de Poyanne died a few days ago <br/>
days ago at Vendome, he was moribund when he left <br/>
left Paris, and it was well foreseen that he would die <br/>
in the Carabiniers: this body was given to <br/>
given to M. de Chabrillant, it had been promised to him <br/>
for a long time. The Baron de Bézenvalt has <br/>
obtained the command of the interior <br/>
of the kingdom, which M. de Poyanne had; it is worth <br/>
40,000 # of pension, without any charge. <br/>
Count de Broglie also died in St Jean <br/>
of Angeli of a malignant fever; his comman-<br/>
dement of Franche-Comté and his government <br/>
of Saumur and the Saumurois were given <br/>
to M. de Vaux, and the second to M. le cte <br/>
d'Egmont. M. de la Tour du Pin and M. de St <br/>
Julien the son are also dead. The cte <br/>
de Rochechouart (Courteil) and the eldest son <br/>
of M. de Ségur are quite ill, the first <br/>
in Courteil, and the second in Ancenis, of a continuous <br/>
fever. M. de Dreux is also dead and his <br/>
office (charge) was given on the spot to his son.  </p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573062">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>I have had my niece here for about <br/>
two months, we often talked about<br/>
you. I had the honor of having Madame<br/>
the Baroness of Vioménil, your daughter <br/>
and Mr. your son-in-law for two days, <br/>
I would have liked to be able to keep them longer,<br/>
but my entreaties have been useless.<br/>
It seems to me that Made your daughter has made a very lucky<br/>
marriage. They say infinitely good things about<br/>
M. de Montmort, and in the little I have seen of <br/>
him, he seemed to me to justify the good idea I had <br/>
of him; moreover, he has a very honest fortune,<br/>
and in the way that husband and wife<br/>
seem to be together, there is every reason to hope<br/>
that Mademoiseille your daughter will be very happy, I offer you <br/>
my compliments with all my heart, <br/>
and I renew to you, my dear Baron, the assurances<br/>
of my tender and inviolable attachment.</p>
<p>A thousand compliments, please, to your brother.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>