---
title: 'No. 157: Brouillon lettre B de V à M de Bellecombe, gouverneur de St Domingue
  - 1783/02/13'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 157: Brouillon lettre B de V à M de Bellecombe, gouverneur de St Domingue
    - 1783/02/13'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-22 19:38:38 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No157

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32573594">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>On board the Triomphant, February 13, 1783</p>
<p>M. le Cte de Rochambeau, Sir, having decided to <br/>
to return to France at the end of the month of February he gave me <br/>
on his departure from Providence, he gave me the command <br/>
which had been entrusted to him with the order to embark <br/>
all the regiments of his army, with the sick and the Legion<br/>
of Lauzun near, on the squadron of M. le Mis de Vaudreuil, <br/>
to be carried and disembarked in the points indicated to <br/>
this general by the instructions or the appointments which he could have <br/>
with the generals of His Catholic Majesty. <br/>
Mr. de Solano not having been found at the one he had indicated, <br/>
and which he had agreed upon last year before his departure <br/>
from St. Domingue, under the eyes of M. le Mis de Galvèz <br/>
and under yours, M. de Vaudreuil seems to me all the more touched <br/>
that it was only after a very stormy crossing <br/>
and after having lost the Burgundy, which was the reason for his</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div class="page-notes">
<strong>Notes:</strong>
<div>
<p><span class="page-note-username">Iris de Rode</span></p>
<p class="page-note-content">La première partie de cette lettre n’est pas de la main de Vioménil </p>
</div>
</div>
<div id="translation-32573595">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>stranded in the night of the 3rd of this month on the <br/>
Spanish coast, that he managed to get here with 5 ships of<br/>
his squadron. As he informs you in detail of everything <br/>
with details of everything that had to do with his crossing<br/>
and the separation of the ships which he made to rest<br/>
at Cuiracao, or left in the south of this island,<br/>
struggling to get here against currents of the greatest<br/>
force. I will limit myself to telling you that his squadron<br/>
has suffered so much since leaving Boston, that she will not be<br/>
in a condition to set sail again<br/>
before the 10th of next month. This<br/>
delay makes me all the more sad that I must <br/>
believe that M. le Mis de Galvès, M. le Mis de Bouillé<br/>
or you, Sir, could have made useful use of the regiments<br/>
the King's service of the regiments which I must keep at their disposal<br/>
as well as yours. If a more reliable opportunity presents itself<br/>
I would have the honor of sending you a statement of</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573596">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>their strength and other means of land that I had embarked<br/>
also on this squadron.<br/>
The Fantasque, armed as a flute, which had to leave Providence<br/>
fifteen days after our departure from Boston to go <br/>
to Porto Plata, being loaded with nearly 400 men from the various<br/>
regiments of our small army and with many means <br/>
of artillery and hospitals, all under the orders of M. d'Espeyron,<br/>
major of the Regiment of Soissonnais, allow me to ask you to<br/>
give your orders for [the said] <br/>
men to be disembarked and cared for in the manner <br/>
which will best ensure their preservation until the <br/>
moment when they will be reunited with their regiment. I<br/>
ask you the same service for two companies<br/>
of the Saintonge Regiment embarked on the Allégeance<br/>
to whom M. de Vaudreuil also ordered <br/>
to go to Porto Plata in case of separation.<br/>
I beg you to receive with kindness<br/>
the homage of the very sincere attachment with which</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573597">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>I have the honor to be, Sir, your very humble and obedient servant.</p>
<p><span class="unclear">[Continued by Vioménil ]</span></p>
<p>M. le Mis de Vaudreuil has been 51 days at sea to get <br/>
from Boston to here. In spite of the length of this crossing, we have <br/>
few sick people, and without the misfortune of the Burgundy <br/>
which caused us to lose ten officers and a hundred <br/>
soldiers and sailors, we would have to praise the good <br/>
state in which our small army is, <br/>
we will lead to you, I hope, at least 800 men per Rgt. <br/>
I will inform M. le Mis de Bouillé of our arrival <br/>
on this coast so that he can consult with M. le Mis <br/>
de Galvèz and you Sir, on the disposition of the <br/>
of the troops that I brought from North America, <br/>
when M. le Mis de Vaudreuil will have received the order <br/>
and will be in a position to lead them to St Domingue or <br/>
in any other colony. <br/>
If you would communicate my letter to M. le Mis <br/>
de Galvèz, and assure him of my respect, <br/>
I would be very grateful. </p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
