---
title: 'No. 155: Brouillon lettre B de V à Mis de Castries - Arrivée armée en Amérique
  du sud - Perte de la Bourgogne - 1783/02/19'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 155: Brouillon lettre B de V à Mis de Castries - Arrivée armée en Amérique
    du sud - Perte de la Bourgogne - 1783/02/19'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-22 19:30:46 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No155

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32573584">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>On board the Triomphant on February 19, 1783</p>
<p>M. le Mis</p>
<p>M. le Mis de Vaudreuil informing you in detail<br/>
of the events which prevented him from joining the Auguste, <br/>
the Pluto and the Fantasque on his departure from North America, of<br/>
the loss of the Burgundy and <br/>
the separation of the two vessels which he made to rest<br/>
at Cuiracao, I will limit myself to telling you that his squadron<br/>
has suffered so much since leaving Boston,<br/>
that it will not be in a condition to set sail again before the tenth<br/>
of next month.</p>
<p>The letter from M. le cte de Rochambeau of the date <br/>
of which I have the honor of sending you the attached copy, <br/>
having arrived in Boston only a few hours<br/>
after our departure, I only received it as well as the dispatches<br/>
that M. le Mis de Ségur had addressed to him on the 18th and 26th of<br/>
August until I arrived here, where they were brought to me by the Augustus<br/>
who went there directly from Porthmouth.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573585">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Although the intention of the king was not that I embark<br/>
with the troops that M. le cte de <br/>
Rochambeau had ordered me to take to the<br/>
West Indies, as I had addressed to M. le Mis de Ségur <br/>
before my departure from Boston, a copy <br/>
of the particular instruction which had been given to me <br/>
by this general, that I had the honor to warn you <br/>
of my obedience to the orders I had just received<br/>
and of my eagerness to inform you of the events<br/>
which would have related to the future of the corps of troops which have been<br/>
entrusted to me, I now believe it to be my duty <br/>
not to separate myself from it until the king has decided on its future<br/>
or that M. le Mis de Vaudreuil has not <br/>
put me in a position to hand it over to <br/>
M. le Mis de Galves or at the disposal of MM.<br/>
de Bouillé and de Bellecombe.</p>
<p>I have informed these two governors general <br/>
of my arrival on this coast so that they can consult <br/>
in advance with M. de Galves on the use of the troops<br/>
that I command. When M. de Vaudeuil can make them</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573586">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>to disembark in accordance with the orders of the king that you can,<br/>
Monsieur le marquis, send to him directly or that<br/>
M. de Bouillé can send him.</p>
<p>I sent to M. le Mis de Bouillé by a sure way<br/>
copies of the various orders which were successively addressed to me.<br/>
I assured him at the same time that all those which he would send me <br/>
would be executed with the zeal and exactitude <br/>
that I will always put to what will interest <br/>
the service of the king, and that if it was still better for the utility of the<br/>
thing or his particular views that I hand over to my brother <br/>
the command of the troops that we have brought <br/>
in South America, that would be done at the first <br/>
word that I would receive from him. I thought Monsieur le <br/>
Marquis that this step was appropriate for my position, and<br/>
especially so that the orders of the king are carried out without the<br/>
the least delay.</p>
<p>Although the majority of the ships which are here <br/>
have been more than fifty days at sea to get there, <br/>
have very few sick, and without the misfortune of Burgundy</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573587">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>which caused us to lose ten officers and a hundred soldiers <br/>
or sailors, we would have to praise in all respects the good state<br/>
in which our small army is.</p>
<p>The Fantasque who had to leave Providence a fortnight after our <br/>
departure from Boston to go to Porto Platta, being loaded with nearly 400 men <br/>
of the various regiments which are here and of many effects<br/>
artillery and hospitals, all under the orders of M. d'Esperon major of the<br/>
of the Rgt de Soissonnais, I have requested M. de Bellecombe by <br/>
a particular dispatch to order that these men be disembarked<br/>
and placed in the island of St. Domingue in the manner <br/>
that will best ensure their preservation, until <br/>
the time when they will be reunited with their regiments. I have <br/>
requested the same service for two companies of the Saintonge Regiment<br/>
embarked on the Allegeance to whom M. de Vaudreuil has also <br/>
ordered to go to Porto Plata in case of separation.<br/>
Mr. de Solano had not been at the rendezvous he had <br/>
indicated and which he had agreed upon in the presence of M. de Galves<br/>
and Bellecombe before his departure from St. Domingue, M. de Vaudreuil<br/>
seems to me all the more touched by this as he is perfectly aware<br/>
the disadvantages of his present position, and that it was only <br/>
the end of a very stormy crossing after having lost<br/>
Burgundy and having struggled for more than a fortnight against<br/>
currents of the greatest strength that he was able to get here <br/>
and gather nine ships of his squadron.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573588">
<h3>5</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p> M. de Champmartin has not yet joined M. de Vaudreuil<br/>
since his arrival, it will only be after his arrival here, Monsieur<br/>
Marquis, that I will be able to give you an account of the manner in which<br/>
the different orders he was able to give to the troops<br/>
he had on board from the moment of his misfortune until the moment<br/>
until he decided to leave his ship.<br/>
I enclose herewith a list of the officers and soldiers who were drowned<br/>
following the loss of La Bourgogne, all of those who were preserved<br/>
returned here from 35 places through the deserts, most of them <br/>
without shirts, without shoes and in a state of utter misery. <br/>
We cannot praise enough the care<br/>
that the Spanish administration gave itself to provide them<br/>
all the help that the places and the<br/>
circumstances allowed them in the various places of their passage .<br/>
I also have the honor of sending you a detailed statement of everything <br/>
that has been embarked in Boston and Providence of the army under the orders of<br/>
M. le cte de Rochambeau.<br/>
I have the honor to be ...</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32573589">
<h3>6</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>State of the officers and soldiers of the Rgt de Boubonnais who were drowned after the wreck of La Bourgogne</p>
<p>Officers</p>
<p>Bourbonnais</p>
<p>M. de Caupenne second captain of the chasseurs<br/>
M. de Trogoff under lieutenant<br/>
M. de Merindol under lieutenant<br/>
M. de La Fège (La Faige) under lieutenant</p>
<p>Soldiers</p>
<p>Chasseurs 10<br/>
Comp. of Dessondes 8<br/>
Comp. of Labrue 9</p>
<p>Artillery<br/>
M. de Faguette Third lieutenant<br/>
Sergeants 2<br/>
Gunners 3</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>