---
title: 'No. 159: Brouillon lettres B de V au Mis de Castries (identique à n° 134)
  et à Mme Dillon - 1781/04/13'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 159: Brouillon lettres B de V au Mis de Castries (identique à n° 134)
    et à Mme Dillon - 1781/04/13'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-22 19:54:02 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No159

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32573600">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div class="page-notes">
<strong>Notes:</strong>
<div>
<p class="page-note-content">This is the draft of letter 134 - please see 134</p>
</div>
</div>
<div id="translation-32573601">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Letter to Madame Dillon</p>
<p>April 3rd, 1781</p>
<p>I had seized with great eagerness, Madam, the first opportunity<br/>
that I had been able to find since I am in America, to really prove to Mr. de Scheldon<br/>
my opinion, my esteem and my interest, by obtaining from M. le cte de Rochambeau<br/>
that he be employed as a general marshal in a detachment <br/>
that he had entrusted to me for an operation in Virginia which could become very<br/>
interesting [....] which could only be carried out by warning the English squadron in Chesapeack Bay, where I was to disembark; the winds being constantly opposed to this action, and Admiral Arbuthnot having joined us <br/>
on the coast of Virginia at Cape Charles on the morning of the 6th<br/>
our whole expedition was reduced to a very lively fight, the glory of which<br/>
belongs without doubt to the Royal Squadron, but the results of which <br/>
prevented us from rescuing Virginia.</p>
<p>If I have not had the pleasure, Madame, of employing Mr. de Scheldon in a manner<br/>
which would have been as agreeable as useful to the service of the King, I have at least<br/>
the pleasure to inform you that he showed himself on the Ardent during the battle of the 6th with a distinction which particularly interested M. de Marigny.<br/>
This officer mandated me and said publicly that M. de Scheldon<br/>
was on the quarterdeck next to him, and that by his example,<br/>
and his good words, he had infinitely contributed to<br/>
the greatest ardor among his crew. I am pleased to repeat to you, Madam, this honourable testimony from one of the best ship captains that the king<br/>
has in his service, and whose conduct was very distinguished in this<br/>
this battle.</p>
<p>If time and circumstances will make me run into other kinds of risks with<br/>
with Mr. de Scheldon, believe Madame that I will employ him <br/>
with confidence, his intelligence, his modesty, the purity of his <br/>
zeal, the friendship he shows me, and what I owe him in gratitude<br/>
for the marks of esteem he has given me on your part, must answer <br/>
to him forever, Madame, and to you [...] guarantee <br/>
that I will have the pleasure of being with him again, whether in peace or war,<br/>
in any circumstance. Please accept with kindness the homage<br/>
of the deep respect with which I am, Madame V.T.H. and T...</p>
<p>Dare I beg you, Madam, to remind me <br/>
to the memory of the Archbishop of Narbonne<br/>
and to make him accept the homage of my respectful attachment.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>