---
title: 'No. 152: Brouillon B de V à Vaudreuil - Enquête sur perte de la Bourgogne
  - 1783/02/21'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 152: Brouillon B de V à Vaudreuil - Enquête sur perte de la Bourgogne
    - 1783/02/21'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-13 01:41:23 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No152

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32547384">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>In Porto Cabello, February 21, 1783</p>
<p>After having given our regrets and all our care, Mr. Marquis,<br/>
to the officers, soldiers or sailors who have perished or who have been<br/>
following the misfortune of the Burgundy (ship), I must still grieve <br/>
to be obliged to ask you for <br/>
the most detailed details on what could have caused<br/>
one hundred and thirty low-ranking officers or soldiers of the regiment of Bourbonnais<br/>
who were saved by the Nereide, had remained without any officer on<br/>
this vessel, after M. de Champmartin <br/>
had decided to leave it, this abandonment, the only one of this kind<br/>
of which I have ever heard, seems, Monsieur le marquis, <br/>
require from you and from me, the most exact research <br/>
on what caused it.</p>
<p>M. de Bressolles, Lieutenant colonel of the regiment of Bourbonnais<br/>
was on this ship, he had to maintain order there under <br/>
the authority of Monsieur de Champmartin until the last moment, <br/>
the soldiers had to place themselves successively on the rafts<br/>
or remain on the ship only with officers of their own </p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547385">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>companies, or appointed by him in proportion to their <br/>
numbers. I have had so many occasions to esteem and to consider <br/>
de Bressolles as an excellent military man, and especially <br/>
as an officer of the best example. <br/>
The other officers that he had with him served <br/>
under my eyes with as much zeal and <br/>
devotion, that it is with as much sorrow <br/>
as astonishment that I saw them return here with <br/>
the weakest part of the companies to which they are attached. As<br/>
it is my duty, Monsieur le marquis, to inform the minister in detail<br/>
of this event, I beg you to ask Monsieur de Champmartin <br/>
if it is by formal orders from him that <br/>
M. de Bressolles and the other officers of the Regiment of the <br/>
the Bourbonnais that he had on board placed themselves on the rafts, <br/>
and that most of the soldiers of this Regiment remained <br/>
on the Burgundy without any officer. The answer <br/>
that you will be able to give me on this object, will serve me as a rule for the<br/>
for the account I will give to the royal ministers. <br/>
I have the honor to be with the most respectful attachment<br/>
Monsieur le Marquis your very humble and very obedient servant. </p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
