---
title: 'No. 162: Brouillon lettre B de V au duc du Chatelet - 1781/05/12'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 162: Brouillon lettre B de V au duc du Chatelet - 1781/05/12'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-13 02:44:47 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No162

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32547648">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>At Newport, May 12, 1781</p>
<p>If M. le cte de Rochambeau, Monsieur le Duc, has not<br/>
brought back to his side the means which were<br/>
necessary to make an honorable and useful campaign, <br/>
he has at least brought me marks of <br/>
of your kindness, your esteem and your memory, <br/>
to which I am very sensitive, yes, Monsieur le Duc, since<br/>
inspectors have been recreated, and have been assembled in <br/>
committee, you could not have done anything that would have been <br/>
more agreeable to me, nor better to my heart, than to associate me<br/>
to everything that makes up the one you preside over, as you<br/>
say, it has put me in very good company,  and I do not know any, I assure you,<br/>
with whom I would rather find myself to live in war<br/>
in war as in peace. Judge from this my<br/>
regrets of being in an emergency, which does not allow me <br/>
me to profit from your lessons, from their lights, <br/>
and to contribute with them, at your orders, and under your eyes, <br/>
which must result from the work of your committee.<br/>
I learned yesterday from your nephew, the death of his brother-in-law<br/>
the regrets that he gives him, the sensibilty as well as <br/>
{M Le Duc de Chatelet }</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547649">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>everything he says about this event, and the worries about <br/>
the effect it will have on the health of Madame de <br/>
Damas, are a credit to his heart, and to his mind. <br/>
He is doing wonderfully well, and we will all <br/>
do our best to keep him with you, in spite of  <br/>
his great vocation to seek out all the occasions when <br/>
he can show himself as a valiant and loyal knight.</p>
<p>If the King's ministers still form new projects <br/>
on England, and that they want us to execute them<br/>
during this campaign, do not count, I beg you, <br/>
Monsieur le Duc, on the Spaniards to help you. <br/>
the departure of M. d'Estaing from Cadiz, to whom they attribute <br/>
the supply of Gibraltar, has apparently given them too much <br/>
of a mood so that I can <br/>
believe them to be occupied with an enterprise for which <br/>
they have and have always had the greatest repugnance. <br/>
They think of themselves, much more than of us, they have just retaken<br/>
Pensacola, a conquest in which they have an infinite interest, and which <br/>
infinitely, and who knows if their clamor about <br/>
the return of M. d'Estaing to Brest, has not made M. de Grace <br/>
and his squadron devote a part of this campaign, to anything <br/>
that will favor their undertakings, </p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547650">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>preference to those that would be more directly <br/>
advantageous to us. You will tell me that these are unpleasant reflections<br/>
and sad foresight, I agree, Mr. Duke,<br/>
and I will gladly make amends on<br/>
my ramblings, if our squadrons and our troops make enough conquests<br/>
in the Channel, or on the colonies of the English <br/>
during this campaign to force them to sign<br/>
in six months independence, and a treaty of peace,<br/>
as glorious for France, as it could have been<br/>
if we had been given the means to take<br/>
New-York, and to drive the English out of all<br/>
America. If M. de Vergennes alone provides France with the<br/>
the same advantages to France, he will have prepared himself<br/>
tp great pleasures, and his self-love will be<br/>
satisfied for a long time.</p>
<p>General Washington wanting us at the beginning <br/>
of July on the North River, we will leave about the 10th <br/>
of next month to join him, it will be really, in the<br/>
the enviorons of Pis-Hill or Dobbsferry <br/>
that our meeting will take place, if this movement which will<br/>
to threaten New York, would give Mr. Clinton <br/>
enough concern to Mr. Clinton to engage him <br/>
to bring back some of the troops that are desolating the<br/>
</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547651">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Virginia, it would have a happier effect than <br/>
we can reasonably expect, for <br/>
in fact we shall be too weak to undertake anything <br/>
but strong enough not to fear any <br/>
attempt on the part of the English <br/>
in the position that could be taken by <br/>
MM de Washington and de Rochambeau in <br/>
the vicinity of New York. In this state of affairs <br/>
we can be sure that we are devoted <br/>
to camp for at least two or three months very close to Mr. Clinton <br/>
and his army, that this campaign will consist of a few reconnoiterings, <br/>
and will be just as as insignificant as the last, and that if even <br/>
M. de Grace were to arrive, at the end of July or in <br/>
the first days of August, devoting himself for three months to <br/>
to everything that could serve the cause of America, <br/>
I will still not see any possibility of taking New-York <br/>
because one does not seize with eight or nine thousand <br/>
men, to which our combined forces will be added, <br/>
a city guarded by a more considerable corps of troops <br/>
and whose approaches are defended on all sides by <br/>
redoubts and entrenchments bristling with cannon, and with <br/>
difficulties.</p>
<p>M. Cornwallis, who was instrumental in Virginia M. de <br/>
La Fayette withdraws before him with much wisdom</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547652">
<h3>5</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>and measure. We are not, however, without <br/>
concern about his sort, the Congress believes it has to do with the <br/>
defection of this province, for my part, <br/>
I do not believe it. Green is making a point (attacking) in the <br/>
Carolinas, which surprises us, and for which <br/>
we wish he would not have to repent. Our squadron is repaired<br/>
in every respect, we are anxiously awaiting <br/>
convoy that brings us recruits, clothing, food <br/>
and money, if we were to miss our <br/>
position and our representation would become<br/>
pittyful, in all, do not expect any prowess<br/>
on our part, even though everything here has a <br/>
will that nothing can diminish. M. le cte de<br/>
Rochambeau, and all that may be of your knowledge<br/>
is doing wonderfully. Farewell, Monsieur le Duc, be well,<br/>
conserve for me your friendship and your memory,<br/>
speak of my tender respect to Madame la duchesse du<br/>
Chatelet and to Mme de Simianne, and believe that it is <br/>
without any restriction and for ever that I am <br/>
faithfully devoted to you.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>