---
title: 'No. 161: Brouillon lettre B de V au duc du Chatelet - 1781/07/30'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 161: Brouillon lettre B de V au duc du Chatelet - 1781/07/30'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-13 02:42:30 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No161

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32547634">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>At the camp of Philippsburg on July 30, 1781</p>
<p>I had the honor of informing you, Monsieur le Duc, in my letter of the 20th<br/>
May last, that General Washington had sent his orders <br/>
to M. le cte de Rochambeau to approach the American army<br/>
in the first days of July. Having been informed on June 9 at Newport that<br/>
that the convoy we were waiting for had arrived the day before in Boston<br/>
the troops were embarked on the tenth and eleventh to go and camp<br/>
Providence, where they waited for and received recruits, <br/>
and some of the effects which the Sagittaire had conveyed, they marched by<br/>
division on the 19th to the North River, where they assembled on the<br/>
on the sixth of this month with the army of Mr. Washington,<br/>
after encamping successively at Waterman Tavern,<br/>
Plainfield, Windham, Bolton, Hartfort, Farmington,<br/>
Waterbury, Breackneck, Newton, Ridgbury, Bedfort and Nort castel;</p>
<p>We marched through difficult country but with such order and<br/>
order and discipline, that no complaint or claim was made <br/>
against anyone.</p>
<p>General Washington raised all his quarters<br/>
as soon as he heard of us at Hartfort, he passed the Hudson on the 25th,<br/>
and encamped the same day at Peekskill, one of his most trusted spies<br/>
had reported to him on the 28th <br/>
that the English were guarding Fort Washington with few men and<br/>
negligence, and that the capture of this fort could give him the facility<br/>
of seizing the Kingsbridge passage,<br/>
to close in on the English in New York, and to cut off all <br/>
communication with the continent, by camping on the heights <br/>
of Harlem. The same day or the day after his meeting with</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547635">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>our small army he decided to attack it on July 3 at daybreak, <br/>
by a corps of 800 men under the command of General Lincoln, whom he had embarked on the 2nd for this purpose in the vicinity of Peekskill. This general, <br/>
who was to descend the North River during the day and night of the second <br/>
at the level of the march of the American army up to three miles from <br/>
Kingsbridge, had orders to disembark and attack on the rear of Fort Washington.<br/>
The Duke of Lauzun, who had joined us on the morning of the second at the camp of Belfor, received <br/>
a special order from General Washington to continue his march, and to attack <br/>
the next day at daybreak, the corps of Lancey's chasseurs <br/>
which occupied Maurisiana. Colonel Sheldon with <br/>
his dragoons his dragoons and one hundred infantrymen, had been detached <br/>
from the American army to assist in this attack at the orders and the <br/>
avant guard of the Duke of Lauzun. The head of of <br/>
our small army directed to Nort Castel, in the morning of of the third, <br/>
could have joined the same day by a forced march<br/>
with the American army, in the vicinity of Kingsbridge,<br/>
but the march of General Lincoln having been discovered<br/>
by two frigates that were going up the river, and <br/>
by a corps of Hessian chasseurs who had left Kingsbridge an hour<br/>
before daylight to cover a search which the English were <br/>
to make in the morning. This general, who could only seize<br/>
Fort Washington by surprising the troops that were guarding it, had no choice<br/>
guarding it, had no other course to take than to disembark his detachment<br/>
his detachment, and to approach the point where Mr. Washington<br/>
had stopped with his army. No sooner had he set out than there was a fire<br/>
he established such a lively fusillade between his rear guard and the<br/>
that it might have had unpleasant consequences for his detachment, <br/>
if the duke of Lauzun who had pushed in front<br/>
him all the Lancey hunters, who were in front of Mauritiana, had <br/>
not shown himself and formed on the rear of these hunters</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547636">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>in a way that makes them worry about their retirement. This<br/>
movement, which was made with great boldness, stopped the hunters' movement<br/>
which became very offensive and strong [...] Mr. Lincoln, who had already<br/>
lost nearly one hundred men, took advantage of this <br/>
to join the American army, which had advanced to receive him<br/>
and General Washington brought it back and encamped it the same day<br/>
day at Philippsburg. He came to see us the next day at the camp<br/>
of Nort Castel, where he ordered us to join him on the day<br/>
of the sixth. Since this last time all the operations were <br/>
reduced to particular reconnaissances and to some shots<br/>
fired from Taritowa and Dobsferry, on frigates and <br/>
some other small corsairs which had gone up the North River on the 15th<br/>
to intercept the navigation of our supplies.<br/>
One of our ships loaded with bread having had the clumsiness to approach<br/>
these frigates during the night was taken, <br/>
some armed barges having advanced to Taritowa<br/>
to burn American boats loaded with powder,<br/>
sergeant and twelve men of the Regt de Soissonnais forced them to withdraw<br/>
and showed themselves in this circumstance in a way<br/>
to deserve praises.</p>
<p>On the evening of the 21st, General Washington and M. le Cte de Rochambeau<br/>
left at the head of five thousand men to approach Kings<br/>
bridge. They spent the days of the 22nd and 23rd reconnoitering<br/>
and drawing up a plan of the works and lines that the English<br/>
the island of New-York, behind the river of Harlem, from the<br/>
from the bridge of Kingsbridge, to the point of Maurisiana, <br/>
and to that of Hors neck, in the sound.<br/>
The duke of Lauzun with his corps, some Americans and the battalion<br/>
of grenadiers and chasseurs of Soissonnais, which were at his orders, folded<br/>
to the left of this march all the posts that the enemies had <br/>
on the continent, he made some prisoners, and facilitated all<br/>
the recognitions of the generals.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547637">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>On arriving at Mauritiana, General Washington, after having noted<br/>
that a remnant of refugees were fleeing before him, and <br/>
that they would not have time to cross the Harlem river again, if they were pushed<br/>
in a mildly harsh way, and having expressed some regrets of having <br/>
only eight or ten dragoons to fulfill this office, MM de Vauban, de Damas<br/>
Vauban, de Damas, de Closen, de Lamberdière, and Berthier, ayde<br/>
of camp of M. le cte de Rochambeau, had hardly heard him<br/>
that they put themselves at the head of these dragoons, charged, pursued<br/>
and took the refugees as far as the river, in spite of a rather considerable fire from<br/>
and musketry, which they attacked very closely.<br/>
M. de Damas had his horse killed by a cannon shot,<br/>
there was no one wounded in this circumstance nor during the two days that our<br/>
during the two days that our troops remained <br/>
in the vicinity of Kingsbridge, although there was much skirmishing<br/>
and more than 800 cannon shots fired by the English.<br/>
The generals brought back all the troops on<br/>
the night of the 23rd to the Philippsburg camp, they were not<br/>
followed by their rear guard,<br/>
the French detachment was under the <br/>
orders of the chevalier de Chastelux, it was composed of the regiments of<br/>
Bourbonnais and Deux-Ponts regiments, the battalion of granadiers and chasseurs<br/>
of Soissonnais and of the Legion of Lauzun. MM de Charlus, and de<br/>
Rochambeau commanded the battalions of grenadiers and<br/>
hunters of their brigades, MM de Deux-Ponts their regiments<br/>
and M le Mis de Laval the Brigade of Bourbonnais, here is,<br/>
Monsieur le Duc the exact report of what happened<br/>
in North America since the month of June, according to<br/>
all appearances this will end without any <br/>
event that may interest, and our destiny will be to <br/>
camp here as long as we have supplies.<br/>
We are still waiting for M. de Grace, I am afraid that we will wait for him</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547638">
<h3>5</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>still for a long time, and even if it arrives in the near future, <br/>
it will not bring us enough means<br/>
to take New York. America would be too<br/>
happy, if our position and his arrival<br/>
would determin Mr. Clinton to withdraw his generals,<br/>
or at least suspend operations in the Carolinas<br/>
the Carolinas and Virginia.</p>
<p>Corwallis has already withdrawn to Williamsburg,<br/>
M. de La Fayette follows him with measure.<br/>
General Green after having made a voyage<br/>
to Augusta in Georgia, has made <br/>
attempts on the fort of [Nenni Six], which did not succeed.<br/>
We believe that he is retiring to Cambden <br/>
and that the great heat will put an end for some time to the<br/>
the operations in the Carolinas and Virginia.<br/>
Arbuthnot has returned to England in person,<br/>
Graves commands his squadron. M. de Barras<br/>
remained with his squadron in Newport, where he awaits M.<br/>
de Grace, and where he is protected by a thousand men<br/>
of American militia and four hundred Frenchmen whom M. le Comte de<br/>
Rochambeau has left there at the orders of M. de Choisy.</p>
<p>If our generals determine to make a further movement forward <br/>
and that they can without inconvenience support their right at the<br/>
North River [which is ... one hundred toise ] from the point of Kingsbridge,<br/>
and their left at New Rochelle, they will omit great</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547639">
<h3>6</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>means of subsistence to the English, they will assure us of fodder for the remainder of the campaign, will decrease the service of the army which has become very tiring in this position  and will prevent the enemies from showing up in the future in this part of of the continent.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>