---
title: 'No. 160: Journal de ce qui s''est passé depuis l''arrivée du corps françis
  au camp de Philippsburg... - 1781/07/31'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 160: Journal de ce qui s''est passé depuis l''arrivée du corps françis
    au camp de Philippsburg... - 1781/07/31'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-13 02:40:03 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No160

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32547624">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Diary of what happened since the arrival of the French Corps at the<br/>
Philisburg camp.</p>
<p>On July 15 a small squadron of 5 sails went up the North <br/>
or Hudson River, to intercept the navigation of our supplies. It stopped<br/>
in front of Tarritown, which it began to cannonade at night.<br/>
A force of 12 men from Soissonnais led by a sergeant<br/>
who was there to protect some boats together with a <br/>
detachment of Scheldon's dragoons, opposed the landing <br/>
which could not be carried out. A boat loaded with bread had the clumsiness<br/>
to give into the squadron during the night and was taken away.<br/>
taken away. This squadron, whose admiral ship was 16 guns, paid <br/>
for this incursion. Our 12-gauge guns and howitzers<br/>
under the orders of Mr. de Neurris and Verton treated the ship very badly.<br/>
Fire was on board and 20 men threw themselves into the sea of which one<br/>
came to the shore and told us that <br/>
that one of our shells had set fire to the building and that more than 20 of our cannonballs<br/>
had pierced it. We don't think they are coming back any time soon<br/>
for fresh bread.</p>
<p>On the 19th Gal Washington and the Count de Rochambeau<br/>
made a reconnaissance, by the Jerseys from where they saw at leisure<br/>
all the enemy's works on Yorck Island. They<br/>
distinguished very well 5 or 6 small camps which support them<br/>
facing the North River, and the strongest of which was<br/>
two battalions.</p>
<p>On the evening of the 21st a detachment of 5000 men<br/>
of which 2500 were French, under the orders of the chevalier de Chatelux, mal de camp,<br/>
on Kingsbridge where the two corps were deployed at dawn<br/>
in a respectable position on which we stayed 48 hours.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547625">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>During this time there the Legion of Lauzun with [two?] battalions of American and French grenadiers passed to the right and to the left from<br/>
the river of the North to the Sund at the points of Morisania<br/>
and of Frogsneck, all the posts which the enemy had on the continent were<br/>
on the continent, they took about twenty men and horses <br/>
which facilitated the reconnaissance of Gal Washington and Cte de Rochambeau<br/>
which they made with their respective engineers and M. de Beville<br/>
who surveyed all the works located on the island of New Yorck<br/>
behind the river of Harlem to the point of Morisania, and that <br/>
of Horsneck in the Sund.</p>
<p>On arriving at Morisania the gal Washington pushed a dozen<br/>
of dragoons who were with him on a remnant of refugees <br/>
who had not had time to embark and were killed or taken. MM de Vauban,<br/>
Damas, Berthier, Clozen and Lauberdière, aides de camp<br/>
of Rochambeau joined the American dragoons,  <br/>
and M. de Damas had his horse killed under him <br/>
by a cannon shot fired from the batteries on the other side of the river.<br/>
This is the only effect produced by a considerable fire<br/>
of cannons from the forts and buildings guarding the enemy's rivers<br/>
with a lot of shooting from their <br/>
hunters on foot and on horseback who did not kill a single man in all<br/>
these reconnaissances. The French detachment was composed of<br/>
of regiments of Bourdonnais and Royal Deux-Ponts commanded<br/>
by M. le Mis de Laval and M. de Deux-Ponts, the Battalion<br/>
of grenadiers and chasseurs de Boubonnais commanded by the<br/>
de Rochambeau, of the grenadiers and chasseurs of <br/>
Soissonnais commanded by the cte de Charlus and the legion of<br/>
Lauzun.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
