---
title: 'No. 163: Brouillon lettre B de V au duc du Chatelet - 1781/03/01'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 163: Brouillon lettre B de V au duc du Chatelet - 1781/03/01'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-13 02:48:12 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No163

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32547667">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>At Newport, March 1, 1781</p>
<p>Mr. [des Loteux] has just arrived, Duke, and has given me the letters you did me the honor and friendship of writing to me on May 30, Dec. 3 and 15.<br/>
The good you think of them and the interest you take in them must <br/>
answer to my concern to provide him with opportunities to show himself well and to make himself valued, it would even be very possible that they would not be granted, since Count de Rochambeau has already warned me<br/>
on a detachment that he proposed to entrust to me, to be carried by the<br/>
to be carried by the squadron under the orders of M. le cher Destouches in<br/>
the Chesapeack Bay, at the mouth of the James River, to land<br/>
of James, to disembark there and to meet with M. de La Fayette<br/>
and Messrs. de Stuben and Nelson, who must have brought<br/>
from the northern army, or gathered in Virginia a thousand men<br/>
of continental troops, and from four to five thousand men of<br/>
militia. With these means combined, it would be easy without doubt to<br/>
the depredations which the English have been committing for the last two months<br/>
in this province, but all hopes being at first <br/>
united to winds which can prevent us from preventing <br/>
the English squadron in Chesapeack Bay, or to more unpleasant events<br/>
events, I shall wait to rejoice until I have <br/>
landed at Hampton, and in a position to attack <br/>
Arnold with some appearance of success. Besides, whatever <br/>
the events of this mission I will inform you of them with accuracy<br/>
but what I want to talk to you about at this moment, Monsieur le Duc, <br/>
and that I will repeat to you a thousand times, is that <br/>
I am charmed by the follow-up you have given to your friendship<br/>
for me, for more than 25 years, that I enjoy it in the <br/>
moments of contentment, that it would be an infinite resource to me<br/>
if I were afflicted, that I will never forget <br/>
with what kindness you were willing to take care of my daughter's establishment,<br/>
and especially the sentiment you showed me at the time <br/>
of my departure, that profession of faith which assures you of all the</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547668">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>feelings of my heart must also answer you that there is no <br/>
place, nor distance, nor event that can prevent me from being<br/>
Monsieur le Duc from being forever tenderly devoted to you.</p>
<p>I am going to scold Me de Vioménil, to whom I had given all the power to<br/>
to dispose of his children as he pleased during my absence, <br/>
as well as anything that might belong to me, for not having completed <br/>
without consulting me the marriage that you were kind enough to propose to him<br/>
for my daughter, your opinion, and what I have learned of<br/>
de Damas, of M. de Gestas's taste for work, of <br/>
his feelings, and his respect for his mother, as well as the<br/>
resolution he took to shut himself up in the country for <br/>
two years to pay off his gambling losses and to save himself from<br/>
of renewing them, all this announces a background<br/>
of honor which is even better for my daughter's happiness than a<br/>
than a more considerable fortune. I would therefore ask<br/>
de Vioménil not to react to any of the other proposals<br/>
which have been made to him, and to make all the arrangements with Madame<br/>
de Gestass that can assure my<br/>
daughter the honor of belonging to him. What I would only like<br/>
is that the marriage was not made without M. le Mis de Gestas <br/>
and my daughter knew each other well enough for it to be equally <br/>
pleasant to them.</p>
<p>Put me, I pray you, M. le Duc at the feet of Me la duchesse du Chatelet<br/>
You could not say as much good about the great Damascus as we all think of him<br/>
he is so generally loved, and so well deserving of being so, that I <br/>
would give two fingers to be sure that my son could one day behave <br/>
and think as he does. If Mr. his father and Madame his sister had the goodness<br/>
to remember me, please take this moment <br/>
to tell them of my attachment and respect.<br/>
Whatever the rumors from Paris and Versailles about the supposed <br/>
disunion of our little army, be sure that all that are here<br/>
wants and does only what is convenient for our general and <br/>
that it is impossible for the king to be served anywhere with more gayety and<br/>
exactitude than in Newport.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
