---
title: 'No. 165: Brouillon lettre B de V au prince de Montbarrey - 1780/10/22'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 165: Brouillon lettre B de V au prince de Montbarrey - 1780/10/22'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-13 02:53:00 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No165

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32547691">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Newport 22 xbre 1780</p>
<p>Since the letter which I wrote to you my dear prince,<br/>
by the frigate which carried the viscount of Rochambeau<br/>
to Europe, there has been no change in <br/>
our situation in America. All our infantry<br/>
has been placed for the winter in the city of Newport.<br/>
The only cavalry of the Duke of Lauzun and his person<br/>
have been sent to Lebanon in Connecticut.<br/>
Rodney left New-York with nine ships in the<br/>
last month, to get closer to Jamaica, <br/>
he charged Arbuthnot and Greves to<br/>
to take care of us with thirteen ships and<br/>
some frigates that he left them. The latter<br/>
admiral has been anchored for six weeks with<br/>
nine ships in Gardner's Bay, at the tip <br/>
of Long Island, this station will be painful<br/>
for the winter. I only wish that it will serve as a <br/>
lesson to the sailors that we have here, <br/>
to decide on posts of similar rigor, when they <br/>
will be able to fulfill some useful objects.</p>
<p>Clinton is in New York with the greater part <br/>
of his forces. What he has detached to operate in Virginia<br/>
in Virginia has not been successful, and those whom</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547692">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Cornwallis had had in the Carolinas on the little<br/>
army of Mr. Green, were more than balanced in<br/>
favor of the Americans by the end of October by the <br/>
destruction or total removal of a corps of<br/>
1500 men, commanded by Colonel Fergusson, in <br/>
Cornwallis' advance guard.</p>
<p>The result of this campaign is that the English did not have<br/>
had not had the slightest success in North America since the<br/>
since the capture of Charlestown, that they have suffered <br/>
at Rhodes Island without having attempted the least enterprise<br/>
although they had forces at sea and on land <br/>
three times more considerable than ours, <br/>
that they have let us draw for four months from the supplies<br/>
from Connecticut by the Sund, which they would have removed<br/>
without difficulty if they had had a single frigate<br/>
or a few cutters along this coast and that<br/>
the trade of the cities of Boston and Philadelphia<br/>
be done with as much and perhaps more advantage<br/>
than during the peace. The summer will pass just <br/>
as quietly either here or in <br/>
Mr. Washington's army. The general has taken up his quarters</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547693">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>the first xbre on the river Noord, he established his <br/>
the head at West-Point and his headquarters at <br/>
New Windsor. The raising of troops for this <br/>
army is done with success. If the new <br/>
provisions of Congress have their full effect it <br/>
will be effectively increased to 3500 men on the first of<br/>
April, and it will be provided in the future, with its clothing <br/>
its maintenance as well as its subsistence <br/>
with enough accuracy that we can be proud <br/>
to keep it on the same footing during the <br/>
the rest of the war. If it pleases the King <br/>
to send us ten ships for the same period, <br/>
eight or ten thousand men, and enough money <br/>
for their subsistence, and to help even <br/>
to that of the Americans if that should become necessary, <br/>
as well as for extraordinary expenses, <br/>
will not be on the defensive in the month of June,<br/>
and we may have earned some esteem <br/>
of our countrymen and of our enemies, before <br/>
the first of November. In addition, if we want to finish <br/>
this war gloriously it is necessary to take </p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547694">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Jamaica and drive the British out of New York <br/>
and Charlestown next year. (we should) Combine <br/>
so well with the Spanish that they share with us <br/>
with us in the glory of taking Jamaica, <br/>
and trust to our honor to make sure <br/>
we will all have entered New York, or that <br/>
Mr. Washington will be able to give orders <br/>
before the first of October, if we are sent all that is <br/>
necessary to attack him. <br/>
If we are willing to combine in the royal council that <br/>
that the English currently have 14,000 men in this <br/>
place or in the guard of the forts, redoubts <br/>
or entrenchments that defend it<br/>
and that it can only be attacked successfully <br/>
by embracing the island in which it is located <br/>
by Long and Staten Island, as well as <br/>
by the two banks of the mouth <br/>
of the North River. The ministers will no doubt find <br/>
that an enterprise of this importance requires  great means, <br/>
and will not hesitate to send them to M. le cte de Rochambeau <br/>
without the least delay.<br/>
</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32547695">
<h3>5</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>I must still observe that, supposing that the <br/>
the American army is completed and maintained, at will and <br/>
according to the provisions of Congress, which I will not <br/>
believe until I have seen it, Mr. Washington <br/>
can only assist in the siege and attacks of New York <br/>
but with 15,000 men, all that will be left <br/>
of that army to be employed in the Carolinas and Virginia <br/>
necessarily in the Carolinas and Virginia, <br/>
to prevent Messrs. Cornwallis and Leslie <br/>
from seizing these two interesting provinces.</p>
<p>We have just lost M. de Ternay <br/>
of a fever of some days. Mr. dear Destouches<br/>
who has taken command of his squadron is an officer of merit <br/>
and who enjoys the best reputation in <br/>
in his corps. Farewell, my dear prince, you know .... <br/>
</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>