---
title: 'No. 24: Copie 2 lettres Washington à Ternay - 1780/09/16 '
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 24: Copie 2 lettres Washington à Ternay - 1780/09/16 '
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-09 17:13:48 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No24

---

<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541308">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Copy of a letter from Mr. General Washington to Mr.<br/>
Chevalier de Ternay, at the headquarters of Bergen County, 16 September 1780</p>
<p>I receive at this moment a letter of which I send you a copy. <br/>
It is possible that it is the fleet of Admiral <br/>
and that whoever saw them mistook the large frigates for <br/>
for ships of the line, but <br/>
you will be in a better position to form a judgment about it before <br/>
this letter reaches you. I will communicate to you the <br/>
intelligences that I could receive, but I believed that this one <br/>
of too great importance to wait to send to you.</p>
<p>Copy of a letter from Mr. General Washington to Mr. <br/>
the Chevalier de Ternay, on the coast of <span class="unclear">[Montmoulk ]</span>in Freehold <br/>
September 14, 1780</p>
<p>I have just been informed at this moment that Admiral <br/>
Rodnay with twelve ships of the line and four<br/>
frigates had arrived at Sandiook (Sandi Hook), of the West Indies. <br/>
The person who gave me this information also said that <br/>
yesterday, 13th, they took a French frigate south of here<br/>
and sent it today to New Yorck. He adds<br/>
that we can be sure of this. He adds and shows, but <br/>
without any degree of certainty, that 5000 men of English <br/>
troops are to be sent in a few <br/>
days to Carolina. He believes that they will set sail on the <br/>
25th.</p>
<p>If by some subsequent information I learn <br/>
that this intelligence is erroneous, I will send you a  <br/>
man on horseback as soon as I am better informed. I have <br/>
however, to observe to <span class="unclear">[V.C. ]</span> that I have hardly ever <br/>
been deceived by the people who made this report to me. <br/>
PS. Another report says that the combined squadron <br/>
coming from the West Indies are on our coast. </p>
</div>
</div>
<br />

</div>
