---
title: 'No. 93: Lettre Rochambeau - 1781/08/31'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 93: Lettre Rochambeau - 1781/08/31'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-11 20:58:54 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No93

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541555">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>In Philadelphia on August 31, 1781</p>
<p>It happened, my dear baron, that the number <br/>
of ships sufficient to pass a division, <br/>
that I asked Gal Washington to take <br/>
for the American army which must have arrived <br/>
today at Trenton, and as it would take <br/>
4 days to bring up the same ships <br/>
to go and get each division, I am taking the the bet/  I am deciding<br/>
to make you walk here by land<br/>
by the most beautiful way in the world, and the 2nd<br/>
division will follow in the same way.</p>
<p>The march, my dear baron, being short<br/>
Princetown to Trenton, it was necessary to try to cross<br/>
the river on the day of your <br/>
arrival to camp on this side of the ferry <br/>
on the right bank. The quartermaster of Trenton<br/>
had to recognize a ford for the passage<br/>
of the carts. If we can use it <br/>
without inconvenience to the ammunition and effects it will make<br/>
a much easier deblay; I have <br/>
I asked Gal Washington to leave you <br/>
half a dozen boats to help with the ferries<br/>
and after having helped in the same way<br/>
the passage of the 2d Division.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541556">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>down the river with the effects of either <br/>
the artillery, or the administration, or the <br/>
crews who would need this help. <br/>
By camping first below Trenton and the river, you will easily <br/>
arrive at the Taverne du Lion Rouge, <br/>
in English Red Lion Tavern<br/>
which is only 12 miles from here, on the 2nd of February, and <br/>
the 3rd beyond the Schuikill, <br/>
half a league from the city of Philadelphia <br/>
where we will stay. The 2nd division will follow<br/>
24 hours after yours. I beg you <br/>
to send him a copy of my letter. <br/>
Five thousand pounds of fresh bread leave this evening<br/>
by the tide that the battelier assures<br/>
he will take tomorrow to the ferry at Trenton. <br/>
I assure you, my dear Baron, <br/>
of my tender attachment and I embrace you with all <br/>
my heart The Count of Rochambeau</p>
<p>You have, my dear baron, on your march to Red Lion<br/>
a ferry on the Neshamini where you will make your <br/>
your infantry pass easily, but you must <br/>
send all your carriages to cross this river<br/>
at the ford which is a mile and a half above, <br/>
I passed there, there is very little water.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541557">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Colonel Nelson, quartermaster of Trenton, is <br/>
charged by Gal Washington to procure for you all the<br/>
ferries and the means of passage to Trenton<br/>
in case the ford is not practicable for carts.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541558">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Mister Baron de Vioménil <br/>
Field marshall of the army of the king<br/>
on his arrival in Trenton</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
