---
title: 'No. 94: Lettre Rochambeau chez Washington + Itinéraire - 1781/09/11'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 94: Lettre Rochambeau chez Washington + Itinéraire - 1781/09/11'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-11 21:02:30 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No94

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541559">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>At Mr. de Washington's home on the 11th of September 1781</p>
<p>Here is my dear Baron, the road <br/>
that the legion of Lauzun and all our equipments must <br/>
take. General Washington after<br/>
all the information reassembled finds that there is <br/>
nothing to change. He has given orders everywhere<br/>
to repair the roads and to prepare<br/>
the ferries. However it will always be necessary to have<br/>
some assistant marshals in advance<br/>
with workers.</p>
<p>I confess to you, my dear Baron, that the state<br/>
of distress in which I saw Baltimore<br/>
for the boats does not cease to worry me.<br/>
I have just spoken again to General Washington<br/>
and asked him for his last orders on the subject.<br/>
He is still in the firm persuasion that it is<br/>
that it is better to wait in Baltimore for the return<br/>
of the ships of the first convoy than to undertake<br/>
the long and arduous march by land.</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541560">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>but that it is appropriate to leave you; the master<br/>
together with general Lincoln to calculate<br/>
your means, that if you foresee by the return<br/>
of the first embarkation and by the ships<br/>
that the quartermasters hope to have additionaly, <br/>
to be able to embark all your troops <br/>
by a second convoy, the party of waiting for <br/>
this second convoy in Baltimore must be<br/>
preferred. If on the contrary you cannot <br/>
embark everything, and that by your speculations<br/>
you anticipate being obliged to leave a<br/>
part of your troops for a third convoy,<br/>
then it would be better to march this<br/>
part of the troops by land with the large<br/>
equipments. <br/>
I embrace you, my dear Baron,<br/>
from the best of my heart Le Cte de Rochambeau</p>
<p>The news that one had said in Baltimore<br/>
of an English privateer who was said to be in<br/>
the Potowmack seems to me to be devoid of any foundation,<br/>
but the cannonade of the 5th was heard <br/>
everywhere we do not know a word<br/>
of what it could be. We will leave tomorrow</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541561">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Route to Williamsburg</p>
<p>Baltimore to Elck Ridge Landing 8 miles<br/>
to Bladenburg 30 miles<br/>
to Georgetown on the Potowmac<br/>
to Frederickburg +<br/>
to Caroline Court House<br/>
to Newcastle<br/>
to Williamsburg<br/>
total 210, or 220 miles</p>
<p>+ It is believed that the Rapahannoc can be forded 2 miles above Frederickburg at Falmouth</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541562">
<h3>4</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>and we'll be in Williamsburg on the 14th</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
