---
title: 'No. 95: Lettre Rochambeau (Taverne la Rose) - 1781/09/10'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 95: Lettre Rochambeau (Taverne la Rose) - 1781/09/10'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-11 21:07:44 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No95

---

<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541563">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>At the Rose tavern this 10 7bre</p>
<p>I have no other instructions, my dear<br/>
Baron, to give you for the disembarkation than <br/>
that of Mr. de Custine of which you have a copy<br/>
which is to go down to the river of <br/>
James River to join M. de La Fayette,<br/>
unless Mr. de Grasse, by circumstances<br/>
that we cannot foresee, deems it appropriate <br/>
to make you go down somewhere else.</p>
<p>I would like, my dear Baron, to have you<br/>
embarked with the whole army, but I must admit <br/>
that the state in which I left Baltimore yesterday<br/>
was very painful for me.<br/>
General Washington and I were promised<br/>
to make a general press and to send it<br/>
to all the ports. I had four ships pressed<br/>
that I found at Elk Ridge. Finally<br/>
we hope that the return of the flotilla that left</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541564">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>of Head of Elk, with what Mr. de Grasse will be able to add<br/>
by the catches he has just made<br/>
will be enough to embark everything.</p>
<p>If we had made a new detachment<br/>
on New York, certainly the <br/>
brigade of Soissonais would have had its turn, but when the whole<br/>
army is marching, I must not deprive <br/>
the oldest brigade of the <br/>
the only right that the last ordinances have preserved for the old<br/>
regiments, which is the front guard when going <br/>
to the enemy, and the rear guard in retreat.<br/>
I saw the Picardy brigade, <br/>
for twenty days in a row the rear guard <br/>
of the column after Minden, and you<br/>
know as well as I do the rights of seniority<br/>
that the infantry has always observed in this regard.<br/>
I am going, my dear Baron, with the gl<br/>
Washington to join Mr. de<br/>
La Fayette. The services that you and your brother<br/>
and you are going to render by putting all your care</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541565">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>for the embarkation of the army <br/>
as quickly as possible will be just as <br/>
interesting as those we are going to make<br/>
by blocking Cornwallis in such a way that he cannot <br/>
escape us if possible until you arrive.<br/>
I embrace you, my dear<br/>
Baron, from the best of my heart. I intend<br/>
to join Mr. de Washington this evening at his<br/>
house, and I will try to obtain from him <br/>
a more detailed march for Lauzun's cavalry <br/>
and the crews, I will send it to you<br/>
to Baltimore, as well as new orders <br/>
if there are any to pass on to you.</p>
<p>Cte de Rochambeau</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
