---
title: 'No. 97: Lettre Rochambeau (Camp de Williamsbourg) Instructions Rochambeau
  (Tête de l''Elk) - 1781/09/08'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 97: Lettre Rochambeau (Camp de Williamsbourg) Instructions Rochambeau
    (Tête de l''Elk) - 1781/09/08'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-12 00:44:49 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No97

---
<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541567">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>Instructions for Mr. Baron de Vioménil &amp; for Mr. his brother</p>
<p>At the Head of the Elk on the 8th of 7bre1781</p>
<p>Mr. Baron de Vioménil will have the Susquehannah river passed tomorrow<br/>
with the ferry and with the ford, according to the reconnaissances <br/>
which must be corrected or confirmed by the reconaissance that Mr. Dumas<br/>
had ordered to make, and <br/>
whose report has not yet arrived.</p>
<p>The intention of General Washington is that as soon as the troops will<br/>
arrive at Baltimore, 1° The cavalry of the Legion <br/>
of Lauzun will continue its march by land in such a way as <br/>
to make the longest days possible and <br/>
as much as the subsistence in the various kinds as well <br/>
for men as well as for horses will be able to<br/>
allow it. 2° that the Baron de Vioménil<br/>
embark in Baltimore all that will remain of the<br/>
of the army, if it is possible. General Washington<br/>
hopes that by the orders which have been given in the</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541568">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>different rivers, there will be enough buildings<br/>
to carry it all. However, if the number <br/>
is not complete, his intention is that a regiment or a French<br/>
brigade, if the number of ships permits, to embark first<br/>
then the Americans and <br/>
then the 2nd French brigade. His Excellency is<br/>
persuaded that it is better that this 2nd brigade waits for <br/>
the return of the first ships to embark, than <br/>
to undertake a march by land beyond <br/>
Baltimore. As for the artillery of the regiments, if it <br/>
can be embarked with the regiments to which they are attached<br/>
it should be preferred, if not to <br/>
to follow by land the same route that the Lauzun Legion will have taken<br/>
and whose itinerary will be given <br/>
by Mr. de Bévile. <br/>
The crews of the troops and all the carts<br/>
generally must follow by land the way<br/>
that the Legion of Lauzun will have taken. This way is<br/>
the same one that was given by General Washington<br/>
in Philadelphia, for the principal places that he </p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541569">
<h3>3</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>has only indicated, except to correct the errors of detail <br/>
that the local knowledge will put within reach <br/>
to rectify.</p>
<p>General Washington promised Mr. le cte de <br/>
Rochambeau, who is marching 24 hours after him,  <br/>
to pass on to him his orders for the troops, if <br/>
there is something to be changed in their direction, or <br/>
more detailed details to send them, and <br/>
Mr. de Rochambeau will pass them very promptly<br/>
to the Baron de Vioménil.</p>
<p>Count de Rochambeau. </p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>
