---
title: 'No. 98: Lettre Rochambeau (Philadelphie) - 1781/08/31'
layout: work
metadata:
- label: Title
  value: 'No. 98: Lettre Rochambeau (Philadelphie) - 1781/08/31'
- label: Created On
  value: 2022-09-12 00:48:04 UTC
- label: In Scope
  value: 'true'
- label: Uploaded Filename
  value: No98

---

<div class="pages">
<div id="translation-32541570">
<h3>1</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>At Philadelphia, August 31, 1781</p>
<p>I am writing this letter, my dear baron, by <br/>
duplicate, in case the first one sent has <br/>
failed to leave on [p...] I was mandating you <br/>
that the boats being in too small a quantity and <br/>
and sufficient only for one division, <br/>
I had requested General Washington to use them for the<br/>
the American division and preferred the march by land of the<br/>
of the French corps by <br/>
the most beautiful road in the world to the uncertain wait<br/>
of the return of this flotilla.</p>
<p>The day from Princetown to Trenton being<br/>
short, you must try, my dear baron,<br/>
to cross the river tomorrow when you arrive<br/>
and to camp on this side of the ferry.<br/>
Colonel Nelson, quartermaster at Trenton<br/>
has orders to provide you with all the means for <br/>
the passage of your troops, he must have recognized<br/>
a ford and test it for the passage of<br/>
ammunition and baggage. If you pass<br/>
tomorrow evening, you will arrive easily on the 2nd<br/>
to the Taverne du Lion Rouge in English "Reed (red is misspelled)<br/>
Lion", 13 miles from here, and on the 3rd beyond the Schuilkill<br/>
half a league from here where we will stay.</p>
<p>This evening, 5000 pounds of bread will be sent to the</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
<div id="translation-32541571">
<h3>2</h3>
<div class="page-content">
<p>This evening 5000 pounds of bread is leaving by a <br/>
boat that will arrive tomorrow morning in <br/>
Trenton. Send a copy of my letter to <br/>
your brother so that he will follow you <br/>
to the nearest 24 hours.</p>
<p>On your day of the 2nd you have a ferry <br/>
on the Neshaminy and a very good ford above <br/>
that I passed at one mile above <br/>
for your artillery and crews, sent an <br/>
aide Mal des logis to reconnoiter it. Our <br/>
camp of the Red Lion is charming in the<br/>
<span class="marginalia">{The 3 7bre}</span><br/>
wood facing a village in Turkey and Philadelphia. A little toilet<br/>
before you arrive because the whole city <br/>
and the Congress will see you pass. <br/>
I embrace you my dear baron with all my heart. <br/>
2 days ago we know Houd with <br/>
15 ships arrived from the Islands in front of the <br/>
Hook. God keep him there <br/>
until the arrival of whom you know</p>
<p>The Count of Rochambeau <br/>
</p>
</div>
</div>
<br />
</div>